---
title: "DH24"
source: "C:/Users/Admin/Downloads/drive-download-20251225T152443Z-3-001/DH24.docx"
---

**DH24.11 HB**

**Part 1. Read the following text and use your own words to summarize it. Your summary should be about 100-120 words long. (15 points)**

The extract illustrates how cultural backgrounds influence spatial awareness and communication. Undoubtedly, cultural values are instilled in every individual subconsciously, leading to the discrepancy in information comprehension across other civilisations. In other words, differences in personal proximity and paralanguage can incur misinterpretations of intended messages. Furthermore, certain cultures consider clothing and body ornamentation as a form of paralanguage to convey pertinent information about individual status, identity, and roles. In brevity, human communication is sophisticated, with the majority of information being conveyed without necessitating the use of words. Accordingly, in daily and cross-cultural interactions, overlooking these aspects of paralanguage can lead to significant misunderstandings.

**Part 2. Graph writing (15 points)**

**The pie charts below show the online sales for retail sectors in New Zealand in 2003 and 2013.** *Summarize the information by selecting and reporting the main features and make comparisons where relevant.*

Write at least **150** words.

*(image removed)*

The pie graphs illustrate the online source of revenue across various retail categories in 2003 and 2013.

Overall, there was a surge in sales in the film/music and book industries, while the travel and attire sectors suffered a loss.

Upon closer inspection, it is apparent that the film and music category constituted 22% of the overall online income in 2003. In the following decade, this sector’s total revenue rose by 1.5 times. Likewise, despite not witnessing a significant increase, the overall earnings from books rose to 22% in 2013, a 3% difference compared to the previous decade.

Regarding the travel and attire categories, although the travel industry yielded the majority of 2003’s income, the industry saw an 8% drop after 10 years, culminating at 29%. Meanwhile, the clothing sector was surpassed by book sales, shrinking from 22% to 16% over a 10-year course, becoming the category with the most marginal share.

**Part 3. Essay writing (30 points)**

**Some believe that advances in technology are increasing the gap between rich and poor while others think the opposite is happening. Discuss both views and give your own opinion in an essay of about 350 words.**

In contemporary society, technology is constantly being renovated at a rapid pace. Several individuals contend that these technological innovations are widening the disparity between the affluent and the impoverished, while others believe that it is narrowing the discrepancy in wealth. In this essay, I will discuss both viewpoints and present my stance on the matter with pertinent examples to substantiate it.

On the one hand, technology undoubtedly benefits individuals with sufficient resources. To commence with, advanced technological gadgets are often exorbitant and require significant capital investment. For instance, the Apple Vision Pro, a novel technological innovation from Apple, despite having numerous captivating and revolutionising features, its outrageous price tag prohibits a myriad of users from purchasing and testing out the product. Furthermore, technological advancements can foster job displacement, particularly in the manual labour industries. To elucidate, automated machinery and artificial intelligence, a product of the innovative human brain, can replace low-skilled occupations and repetitive tasks, incurring a loss of profession for various individuals unable to adapt to the transforming job market.

On the other hand, proponents of the view that technology narrows the gap argue that it democratises access to information, education, and opportunities. Initially, the internet, one of humanity’s most paramount inventions, has made the search for information and learning more accessible to individuals regardless of their backgrounds. To explicate, people from distant regions with inadequate educational opportunities can invest in a portable computer or a smartphone to access the limitless source of information on the Internet. Accordingly, they can develop personal skills and acquire specialised knowledge to compete in a competitive job market, surpassing poverty. Moreover, the revolutionised methods of communication have enabled several impoverished families to seek opportunities and reach audiences at a larger scale. One prime example is online selling, with a rudimentary smartphone, one can initiate their own business online, merchandising handmade items to generate income.

From my perspective, technology is a double-edged sword. While it can indeed exacerbate inequality if its benefits are concentrated among the wealthy, it can also be a powerful tool for reducing poverty and promoting equality if it is made accessible to all. Hence, it is imperative for authorities and global technological giants to implement suitable measures to maximise the potential merits of technological advances.

In conclusion, the ramifications of technology on social and economic inequality are multifaceted. When utilised wisely and equally, novel technological gadgets can produce fruitful results for both the rich and the poor, effectively narrowing the gap between the classes. However, without careful consideration and inclusive policies, technology can also exacerbate the disparity between people of all classes, primarily benefiting those with existing resources while leaving others behind.