---
title: "Task 2 20_7_2024"
source: "C:/Users/Admin/Downloads/drive-download-20251225T152443Z-3-001/Task 2 20_7_2024.docx"
---

Task 2: As housing is a basic need for people, the government should provide free housing for everyone who cannot afford it. To what extent do you agree or disagree?

In contemporary society, it is indubitable that living expenses have been constantly rising in recent years. Given that housing is a rudimentary necessity, it is incumbent upon the authorities to offer accommodation free of charge to individuals facing financial constraints. From my perspective, I totally disagree with the suggested approach, and this essay will present pertinent examples to substantiate my view.

Proponents of government-provided free housing argue that several merits are evident in addressing public issues and fostering family stability. To commence with, it is undeniable that free housing could significantly diminish homelessness and eliminate several associated problems, as well. To elucidate, numerous crimes, namely theft, violence and drug possession are committed due to insufficient resources. By relieving the property burden for impoverished households, it is unlikely that individuals will resort to illicit activities to supplement their income. Moreover, complimentary housing can enable low-income families to allocate their limited resources towards other essential needs. Indeed, instead of dedicating a significant portion of their remuneration to rent or mortgage payments, families can invest in nutritious food, healthcare, and educational opportunities for their children.

However, it is imperative to recognise the negative implications that a policy of government-provided housing could engender. Initially, the financial burden on taxpayers would be immense. To exemplify, the construction and maintenance cost of housing on a large scale would necessitate substantial governmental funds, potentially raising taxes to remedy the lost budget and diverting fiscal resources from other fundamental public services, including education and healthcare. Furthermore, such a system could inadvertently create a dependency culture. Undoubtedly, offering individuals free property could lead to a diminishment in their drive to seek employment or enhance their financial status. Consequently, this could lead to a prolonged dependence on government support, placing tremendous pressure on public resources and stifling individual initiative.

In my opinion, despite some notable advantages of government-provided housing for the underprivileged, it is not a viable solution to address the root causes of poverty and inequality. I believe that the integration of such a policy would only exacerbate the current social disparity in the long term, as the sole benefactors of these programmes are disadvantaged households. Meanwhile, the approach could have unintended consequences for the broader community, such as increased demand for housing and strain on public resources. Additionally, there is also a risk of abusing the social system. One prime example is Vietnam, where several investigations have uncovered cases where individuals continue to receive pension payments even after their death, and further scrutiny has revealed that their relatives have been fraudulently benefiting from the programme.

In conclusion, although the concept of free housing from the authorities may seem appealing, I believe that the incorporation of such a policy would incur various repercussions, particularly the increased overall financial pressure, the overreliance and abuse of governmental funding, coupled with the aggravation of social inequality.