---
title: "Televised talent shows have become popular in many societies today"
source: "C:/Users/Admin/Downloads/drive-download-20251225T152443Z-3-001/Televised talent shows have become popular in many societies today.docx"
---

In the current era, the show businesses are booming and there is no exception for the prevalence of talent competitions. While some people argue that these television programmes are a great way of discovering gifted individuals, others contend that they are merely for recreational values. From my perspective, I believe that these shows play a significant role in unravelling one’s talent and this essay will elaborate the statement with pertinent illustrations to support it.

On the one hand, there exist several underlying reasons why some individuals believe that these shows are just for amusement. Initially, there have been numerous cases of candidates who were eliminated early and went on to become a worldwide phenomenon. Take Son Tung M-TP as an example, back in 2012 he participated in a talent show and did not go far in the competition. However, he is now the most famous artist and singer in Vietnam. Furthermore, some judges in talent competitions tend to lean towards contestants who are young and attractive, without taking their actual skills into account. In other words, these contests hold a belief that such participants and disputes can enhance their brand and gain more popularity. Consequently, truly adept people may lose confidence and cease their passion.

On the other hand, despite the explanations expressed above, I firmly hold my stance on the view that these shows do hold the ability to unveil capable individuals. Firstly, various well-known artists have become public figures from talent shows. One archetype is One Direction, Simon Cowell saw their potential and decided to train them into complete artists, despite having split, all members of the bad are still incredibly famous. Secondly, the prizes from such competition may motivate contestants to thrive and overcome other candidates. Thus, reaching their potential and thereby gaining success in later times. Moreover, some shows may offer immediate record contracts and financial support for the candidates, creating more opportunities for performers. Eventually, judges from these kinds of shows are professionally selected. Accordingly, show partakers can receive appropriate feedback and ameliorate their own weaknesses.

In conclusion, despite the entertainment significance of talent competitions, I wholeheartedly believe that they do play a substantial role in seeking gifted people. These programmes also reach a large audience, giving those who slipped their chances in the competition to be scouted by other expert industries.