---
title: "Red-naped ibis"
source: "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red-naped_ibis"
---

Species of bird

The **red-naped ibis** (***Pseudibis papillosa***) also known as the **Indian black ibis** or **black ibis** is a species of [ibis](/wiki/Threskiornithinae "Threskiornithinae") found in the plains, agriculture fields and cities of the [Indian subcontinent](/wiki/Indian_subcontinent "Indian subcontinent"). Unlike other ibises in the region it is not found very often in waterbodies and is often found in dry fields, but are attracted more to areas that have more wetlands. It is usually seen in pairs or loose groups and can be identified by the nearly all dark body with a white patch on the shoulder and a bare dark head with a patch of crimson red warty skin on the crown and nape. It has a loud call and is noisy when breeding. It builds its nest most often on the top of a large tree or palm, and an increasing number of pairs are building on cell phone towers and electricity pillion towers.

## Description

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=1 "Edit section: Description")]

The red-naped ibis is a large black bird with long legs and a long downcurved bill. The wing feathers and tail are black with blue-green gloss while the neck and body are brown and without gloss. A white patch on the shoulders stands out and the top of the featherless head is a patch of bright red warty skin. The warty patch, technically a [caruncle](/wiki/Caruncle_(bird_anatomy) "Caruncle (bird anatomy)"),[[3]](#cite_note-3) is a triangular patch with the apex at the crown and the base of the triangle behind the nape that develops in adult birds. The iris is orange red. Both sexes are identical and young birds are browner and initially lack the bare head and crown. The bills and legs are grey but turn reddish[[4]](#cite_note-storks-4) during the breeding season.[[5]](#cite_note-hbk-5)[[6]](#cite_note-fbi2-6) The toes have a fringing membrane and are slightly webbed at the base.[[7]](#cite_note-whistler-7)

They are usually silent but call at dawn and dusk and more often when nesting. The calls are a series of loud braying, squealing screams that descend in loudness.[[8]](#cite_note-pcr-8) Nocturnal calling is rare and has been observed in urban settings.[[9]](#cite_note-:9-9)

This species can be confused with the [glossy ibis](/wiki/Glossy_ibis "Glossy ibis") when seen at a distance but the glossy ibis is smaller, more gregarious, associated with wetlands and lacks the white on the wing and has a fully feathered head.[[7]](#cite_note-whistler-7)

## Taxonomy

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=2 "Edit section: Taxonomy")]

The species was first given its scientific name by Temminck in 1824. He placed it in the genus *Ibis* but it was separated into the genus *Inocotis* created by [Reichenbach](/wiki/Heinrich_Gottlieb_Ludwig_Reichenbach "Heinrich Gottlieb Ludwig Reichenbach") and this was followed by several major works including the Fauna of British India although the genus *Pseudibis* in which [Hodgson](/wiki/Brian_Houghton_Hodgson "Brian Houghton Hodgson") had placed the species had precedence based on the [principle of priority](/wiki/Principle_of_Priority "Principle of Priority").[[10]](#cite_note-10) The species included the [white-shouldered ibis](/wiki/White-shouldered_ibis "White-shouldered ibis") as a subspecies *P. papillosa davisoni* from 1970s but that is now treated as a full, although closely related species.[[11]](#cite_note-11) The main morphological difference between the two species is seen in the crown and the upper neck. While *P. papillosa* has a patch of red tubercles on the back of the crown, *P. davisoni* lacks it. Also, adult *P. papillosa* have a narrow, bright red mid-crown that becomes broader on the hindcrown, whereas, adult *P. davisoni* has a bare pale blue middle hindcrown that extends to the upper hindneck and forms a complete collar around the upper neck.[[12]](#cite_note-12) Using nuclear and mitochondrial DNA, the species has been placed within the subfamily Threskiornithinae in a clade that includes both New and Old World members.[[13]](#cite_note-13)

## Distribution and habitat

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=3 "Edit section: Distribution and habitat")]

The red-naped ibis is widely distributed in the plains of the [Indian subcontinent](/wiki/Indian_subcontinent "Indian subcontinent").[[14]](#cite_note-:6-14) In Rajasthan, it is common along the [Aravalli mountains](/wiki/Aravalli_Range "Aravalli Range") but entirely avoids using the trees on the mountains.[[15]](#cite_note-:1-15) The red-naped ibis uses [lakes](/wiki/Lake "Lake"), [marshes](/wiki/Marsh "Marsh"), riverbeds, irrigated farmlands, dry fallow fields, villages, towns and cities.[[4]](#cite_note-storks-4) More wetlands on the landscape attract a greater number of red-naped ibises, but birds forage largely in dry fields increasing use of wetlands for foraging during summer.[[16]](#cite_note-:2-16)[[17]](#cite_note-:3-17) In semi-arid areas, it is commonly seen in small flocks of 2-4, which could be family groups, with larger groups being relatively rare.[[17]](#cite_note-:3-17)[[16]](#cite_note-:2-16) Fewer ibises were counted in wetter locations and seasons.[[14]](#cite_note-:6-14)

It is a common breeding resident in [Haryana](/wiki/Haryana "Haryana"), [Punjab](/wiki/Punjab "Punjab"), Rajasthan and the Gangetic plains. It extends into southern India but is not found in the forested regions or the arid zone of the extreme southeast of the peninsula or Sri Lanka.[[5]](#cite_note-hbk-5) In lowland Nepal, most foraging red-naped ibis were seen in agricultural fields, but most nests were seen in forests.[[18]](#cite_note-18) Red-naped ibis commonly use villages, towns and mega-cities seeking food, nesting and roosting.[[4]](#cite_note-storks-4)[[15]](#cite_note-:1-15)[[17]](#cite_note-:3-17)[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19)[[20]](#cite_note-:7-20)[[21]](#cite_note-:11-21)

The red-naped ibis is largely [diurnal](/wiki/Diurnality "Diurnality") in its foraging and other activities,[[22]](#cite_note-22) at night roosting communally on trees or on islands.[[15]](#cite_note-:1-15)[[4]](#cite_note-storks-4) Nocturnal activities such as loud calling is rare.[[9]](#cite_note-:9-9) In semi-arid areas, they avoid potential competitive interactions with other sympatric ibis species by foraging largely in upland habitats.[[23]](#cite_note-23)

## Food and foraging

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=4 "Edit section: Food and foraging")]

Early observers and investigations of stomach contents showed their diet to include crustaceans (prawns, crabs), insects (beetles, grasshoppers, crickets), scorpions, carrion and frogs.[[24]](#cite_note-24)[[25]](#cite_note-:10-25) Subsequent additional observations have shown the red-naped ibis to be more omnivorous, feeding on carrion,[[26]](#cite_note-26) insects, frogs, other small vertebrates, and grain.[[5]](#cite_note-hbk-5) They forage mainly in dry open land and stubbly fields, sometimes joining egrets and other birds on land being tilled to feed on exposed earthworms, disturbed insects and dig for beetle grubs.[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19) They walk and like other tactile-feeding ibises, probe in the soft ground. The rarely wade in water[[6]](#cite_note-fbi2-6) but have been observed seeking out frogs hiding in crab holes.[[27]](#cite_note-27) They feed commonly at garbage dumps eating mammal and bird carcasses.[[8]](#cite_note-pcr-8)[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19) In small towns, red-naped ibis hunt adult Rock Pigeons and predate their eggs from nests on buildings.[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19) Near towns, ibises ate road kills and pulled out marrow of bones of cattle dead from collisions with traffic.[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19) During droughts they were seen feeding on carrion and insect larvae that were feeding on meat. They also feed on groundnut and other crops. In British India, indigo planters considered them useful as they appeared to consume a large number of [crickets](/wiki/Cricket_(insect) "Cricket (insect)") in the fields earning them the moniker "planter's friend".[[28]](#cite_note-:0-28)[[25]](#cite_note-:10-25) Adult and juveniles birds in Delhi dig into flowers of *[Bombax ceiba](/wiki/Bombax_ceiba "Bombax ceiba")* seemingly drinking nectar.[[20]](#cite_note-:7-20) Fishing by red-naped ibis is rare and has been observed in reservoirs.[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19)

Ibises roost in groups and fly to and from the regularly used roost site in "V" formation.[[7]](#cite_note-whistler-7)

## Breeding

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=5 "Edit section: Breeding")]

Red-naped ibises usually nest individually and not in mixed species heronries. There are a few observations of colonial breeding by red-naped ibis. A small colony of 3-5 nests was reported from Sind, Pakistan.[[29]](#cite_note-29) Two nests on a single tree was observed in Nepal.[[4]](#cite_note-storks-4) Two pairs were seen nesting on Palmyra palms (*Borassus flabellifer*) in an institutional campus in Andhra Pradesh.[[30]](#cite_note-30) A small but expanding colony of 20 nests spread over two large trees in a village is being monitored in Gujarat.[[21]](#cite_note-:11-21) In some towns, cities and agricultural areas with few trees, red-naped ibis built most nests on artificial structures such as electricity pillion towers, cell phone towers, and light poles.[[31]](#cite_note-:5-31)[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19) The habit of using artificial structures for nesting was not observed in studies conducted in the 1990s and seems to be recently learnt, but has been observed widely in Gujarat, Telangana and Rajasthan.[[32]](#cite_note-32)[[31]](#cite_note-:5-31)[[33]](#cite_note-33)[[34]](#cite_note-:8-34)

The breeding season is variable but most often between March and October and tending to precede the monsoons. When pair-bonding, females beg for food from the males at foraging grounds. Males also trumpet from the nest site.[[4]](#cite_note-storks-4) The nests are mainly large stick platforms that are 35-60 cm in diameter and about 10-15 cm deep. Old nests are reused as are those of kites and vultures. The nests are loosely lined with straw and fresh material to the nest is added even when the eggs are being incubated. The nests are usually at a height of 6–12 metres above ground, on banyan (*[Ficus benghalensis](/wiki/Ficus_benghalensis "Ficus benghalensis")*) or peepal (*[Ficus religiosa](/wiki/Ficus_religiosa "Ficus religiosa")*) trees, often close to human habitation. Ibis pairs copulate mainly when perched on trees.[[4]](#cite_note-storks-4) The eggs are 2–4 in number and pale bluish green in colour. They are sparsely flecked and have pale reddish blotches. Both male and female red-naped ibis incubate the eggs which hatch after 33 days.[[5]](#cite_note-hbk-5)[[35]](#cite_note-35)[[36]](#cite_note-36) Several pairs nested within city limits in Udaipur preferring to nest on *Azadirachta indica* (a tree species native to India, but introduced to Udaipur city), *Eucalyptus* sp. (an introduced tree species to India) and *Ficus religiosa* (a native tree protected by religious beliefs in India).[[15]](#cite_note-:1-15) After successful fledging of chicks, Red-naped ibis nests were taken over by pairs of Red-necked Falcons (*Falco chicquera*) in Surendranagar district, Gujarat.[[37]](#cite_note-37) In Telangana, an old nest of red-naped ibis was used by Red-necked Falcon above which was an active nest of red-naped ibis, both located on electricity pillion tower.[[31]](#cite_note-:5-31)

## Parasites

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=6 "Edit section: Parasites")]

The nematode *Belanisakis ibidis* has been identified from the small intestines of the species[[38]](#cite_note-38) while the feathers of ibises are host to specific species of bird lice in the genus *Ibidoecus*. The species found in the red-naped ibis is *Ibdidoecus dennelli*.[[39]](#cite_note-39) *Patagifer chandrapuri*, a species of [Digenea](/wiki/Digenea "Digenea") flatworm has been found in the intestines of specimens from Allahabad.[[40]](#cite_note-40) In captivity, a trematode *Diplostomum ardeiformium* has been described from a red-naped ibis host.[[41]](#cite_note-41) Protist parasites include *Eimeria*-like organisms.[[42]](#cite_note-42)

## In culture

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=7 "Edit section: In culture")]

The Tamil [Sangam literature](/wiki/Sangam_literature "Sangam literature") mentions a bird called the "*anril*" which was described as having a curved bill and calling from atop palmyra palms (*[Borassus flabellifer](/wiki/Borassus_flabellifer "Borassus flabellifer")*). [Madhaviah Krishnan](/wiki/Madhaviah_Krishnan "Madhaviah Krishnan") identified the bird positively as the black ibis and ruled out contemporary suggestions that this was a [sarus crane](/wiki/Sarus_crane "Sarus crane"). He based his identification on a line that mentions the arrival of *anrils* at dusk and calling from atop palmyra palms. He also pointed out ibises to locals and asked them for the name and noted that a few did refer to it as *anrils*. Sangam poetry also mentions that the birds mated for life and always walked about in pairs, one of the leading reasons for others to assume that this was the sarus crane, a species that is not found in southern India.[[43]](#cite_note-43)[[44]](#cite_note-44)

A number of names in Sanskrit literature including "kālakaṇṭak" have been identified as referring to this species.[[45]](#cite_note-45) Jerdon noted the local names of "karankal" and "nella kankanam" in Telugu and "buza" or "kālā buza" in Hindi.[[46]](#cite_note-jerdon-46)

In British India, sportsmen referred to the species as the "king curlew",[[47]](#cite_note-47) "king ibis" or "black curlew"[[48]](#cite_note-48) and it was considered good eating as well as sport for falconers (using the [Shaheen falcon](/wiki/Shaheen_falcon "Shaheen falcon")).[[46]](#cite_note-jerdon-46) They would race and soar to escape falcons.[[49]](#cite_note-49) Cultivators referred to the species as "planter's friend" based on the large number of crickets the ibises consumed on indigo plantations.[[28]](#cite_note-:0-28)

## Status and conservation

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=8 "Edit section: Status and conservation")]

The species has declined greatly in [Pakistan](/wiki/Pakistan "Pakistan") due to hunting and habitat loss. The species has been largely unaffected in India and they are traditionally tolerated by farmers and people in cities.[[50]](#cite_note-kushlan-50)[[15]](#cite_note-:1-15) DDT levels in blood plasma was 19 ng/mL in red-naped ibis - the lowest among 13 bird species sampled in a project in India.[[51]](#cite_note-51)

Estimates of population density of red-naped are mostly derived from volunteer counts at wetlands. These estimates are not useful since the majority of red-naped ibis populations use upland and more dry habitats.[[14]](#cite_note-:6-14) The only robust field-based monitoring exercise for the species conservatively provides the population estimate at 20,81,800 (95% CI: 17,45,340 - 25,41,460), and this makes the red-naped ibis among the most populous endemic waterbird species anywhere.[[14]](#cite_note-:6-14) The widely varying seasonal numbers of the species makes it a challenging species to monitor. Though most ibises forage in upland and other dry habitats, more of them occur in places with more wetlands on the landscape.[[16]](#cite_note-:2-16)[[17]](#cite_note-:3-17) Red-naped ibis do not appear to have preferences for particular sized wetlands, thought having a few large wetlands on the landscape benefits populations in semi-arid areas where all the smaller wetlands dry up in the summer.[[16]](#cite_note-:2-16)

Studies in urban areas are showing the ability of Red-naped ibis to exploit city-based foods, and nest on artificial structures such as lighting poles even if these are located in busy marketplaces.[[19]](#cite_note-:4-19)[[20]](#cite_note-:7-20) Red-naped ibises may be benefitting from expanding urban areas as long as urban greening continues to provide them with nesting trees, especially in arid and semi-arid areas where tall trees for nesting are sparse on the countryside, and people continue not to persecute the birds.[[15]](#cite_note-:1-15) Expanding cereal agriculture has led to decline of trees across large areas, but red-naped ibis continue to proliferate in such areas using artificial nesting substrates such as electricity powerline towers and cell phone towers.[[31]](#cite_note-:5-31) The studies collectively suggest that the red-naped ibis may be increasing in numbers due to their behavioural plasticity, especially their ability to use a range of human-modified habitats and areas.[[34]](#cite_note-:8-34)

A few zoos including the ones at Frankfurt, Singapore (Jurong park) have successfully bred the species in captivity. An individual lived in captivity at Berlin zoo for 30 years.[[52]](#cite_note-52)

## References

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=9 "Edit section: References")]

1. **[^](#cite_ref-iucn_status_19_November_2021_1-0)** BirdLife International (2016). ["*Pseudibis papillosa*"](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/22697528/93619283). *[IUCN Red List of Threatened Species](/wiki/IUCN_Red_List "IUCN Red List")*. **2016** e.T22697528A93619283. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.2305/IUCN.UK.2016-3.RLTS.T22697528A93619283.en](https://doi.org/10.2305%2FIUCN.UK.2016-3.RLTS.T22697528A93619283.en). Retrieved 19 November 2021.
2. **[^](#cite_ref-fbi1_2-0)** Blandford, W.T. (1898). [*The Fauna of British India, including Ceylon and Burma. Birds. Volume 4*](https://archive.org/stream/birdsindia04oaterich#page/362/mode/2up). London: Taylor and Francis. pp. 362–363.
3. **[^](#cite_ref-3)** Stettenheim, Peter R. (2000). ["The integumentary morphology of modern birds - an overview"](https://doi.org/10.1093%2Ficb%2F40.4.461). *American Zoologist*. **40** (4): 461–477. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1093/icb/40.4.461](https://doi.org/10.1093%2Ficb%2F40.4.461).
4. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-storks_4-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-storks_4-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-storks_4-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-storks_4-3) [***e***](#cite_ref-storks_4-4) [***f***](#cite_ref-storks_4-5) [***g***](#cite_ref-storks_4-6) Hancock, James A.; Kushlan, James A.; Kahl, M.Philip (1992). *Storks, ibises and spoonbills of the world*. Academic Press. pp. 241–244.
5. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-hbk_5-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-hbk_5-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-hbk_5-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-hbk_5-3) [***e***](#cite_ref-hbk_5-4) Ali, Salim; Ripley, S. Dillon (1978). *Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan* (2nd ed.). New Delhi: Oxford University Press. pp. 112–113.
6. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-fbi2_6-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-fbi2_6-1) Baker, E.C. Stuart (1929). [*The Fauna of British India, including Ceylon and Burma. Birds. Volume 6*](https://archive.org/stream/BakerFbiBirds6/BakerFBI6#page/n355/mode/2up) (2nd ed.). London: Taylor and Francis. pp. 316–317.
7. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-whistler_7-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-whistler_7-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-whistler_7-2) Whistler, Hugh (1949). [*Popular Handbook of Indian Birds*](https://archive.org/stream/popularhandbooko033226mbp#page/n545/mode/2up) (4th ed.). London: Gurney and Jackson. pp. 497–498.
8. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-pcr_8-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-pcr_8-1) Rasmussen, P.C. & J.C. Anderton (2005). *Birds of South Asia. The Ripley Guide. Volume 2*. Washington, D.C. and Barcelona: Smithsonian Institution and Lynx Edicions. pp. 65–66.
9. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:9_9-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:9_9-1) Shekhawat, Deependra Singh; Bhatnagar, C. (2015). ["A nocturnal call of the black ibis (Pseudibis papillosa)"](https://doi.org/10.4038%2Ftapro.v7i1.7192). *Taprobanica: The Journal of Asian Biodiversity*. **7** (1): 56. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.4038/tapro.v7i1.7192](https://doi.org/10.4038%2Ftapro.v7i1.7192).
10. **[^](#cite_ref-10)** Oberholser, Harry C. (1922). ["Inocotis Reichenbach to be replaced by Pseudibis Hodgson"](https://archive.org/stream/proceedingsofbio35biol#page/78/mode/1up). *Proceedings of Biology*. **35**. [Washington, Biological Society of Washington]: 79.
11. **[^](#cite_ref-11)** Holyoak, David (1970). ["Comments on the classification of the Old World Ibises"](https://archive.org/stream/bulletinofbritis8990brit#page/66/mode/1up). *Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club*. **90** (3): 67–73.
12. **[^](#cite_ref-12)** Collar J, Nigel; Eames C, Jonathan (2008). ["Head and sex-size dimorphism in Pseudibis papillosa and P.davisoni"](http://people.ds.cam.ac.uk/cns26/njc/Papers/Pseudibis.pdf) (PDF). *BirdingASIA*. **10**: 36.
13. **[^](#cite_ref-13)** Ramirez, J. L.; Miyaki, C. Y.; del Lama, S. N. (2013). "Molecular phylogeny of Threskionithidae (Aves: Pelecaniformes) based on nuclear and mitochondrial DNA". *Genetics and Molecular Research*. **12** (3): 2740–2750. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.4238/2013.July.30.11](https://doi.org/10.4238%2F2013.July.30.11) (inactive 1 July 2025). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_(identifier) "PMID (identifier)") [23979898](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23979898).`{{cite journal}}`: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 ([link](/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_DOI_inactive_as_of_July_2025 "Category:CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025"))
14. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:6_14-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:6_14-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-:6_14-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-:6_14-3) Kittur, Swati; Sundar, K. S. Gopi (2022). ["Red-naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa density across time and space in south Asian farmlands: the influence of location, season, and rainfall"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022KitturSundar_RNIAcrossSpaceTime_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 69–77.
15. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:1_15-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:1_15-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-:1_15-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-:1_15-3) [***e***](#cite_ref-:1_15-4) [***f***](#cite_ref-:1_15-5) Mehta, Kanishka; Koli, Vijay K.; Kittur, Swati; Sundar, K. S. Gopi (2024). "Can you nest where you roost? Waterbirds use different sites but similar cues to locate roosting and breeding sites in a small Indian city". *Urban Ecosystems*. **27** (4): 1279–1290. [Bibcode](/wiki/Bibcode_(identifier) "Bibcode (identifier)"):[2024UrbEc..27.1279M](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024UrbEc..27.1279M). [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1007/s11252-023-01454-5](https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs11252-023-01454-5).
16. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:2_16-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:2_16-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-:2_16-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-:2_16-3) Asawra, Krishna; Mitra, Anshuk; Mehta, Kanishka; Koli, Vijay Kumar; Sundar, K. S. Gopi (2022). ["Effect of wetland extent on seasonal abundance and behaviour of Red-naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa in the semi-arid Dungarpur district, Rajasthan, India"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022Asawra_etal_RNI_Dungarpur_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 60–68.
17. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:3_17-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:3_17-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-:3_17-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-:3_17-3) Ameta, Hitesh; Koli, Vijay Kumar; Kittur, Swati; Sundar, K. S. Gopi (2022). ["Is the Red-naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa a "waterbird"? Distribution, abundance and habitat use in landscapes with two different dominant land uses in Udaipur district, Rajasthan, India"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022Ametaetal_RNI_Udaipur_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 30–39.
18. **[^](#cite_ref-18)** Katuwal, Hem Bahadur; Quan, Rui-Chang (2022). ["Status of the Red-naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa in agricultural landscapes of Nepal"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022KatuwalQuan_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 24–29.
19. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:4_19-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:4_19-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-:4_19-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-:4_19-3) [***e***](#cite_ref-:4_19-4) [***f***](#cite_ref-:4_19-5) [***g***](#cite_ref-:4_19-6) [***h***](#cite_ref-:4_19-7) Charan, Manish Singh; Sharma, Pradeep; Singh, Mahindra; Kittur, Swati; Sundar, K. S. Gopi (2022). ["Natural history and behavioural observations of Red-naped ibis Pseudibis papillosa in Dhariawad and Sikar cities, Rajasthan"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022Charanetal_RNINaturalHistory_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 55–59.
20. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:7_20-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:7_20-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-:7_20-2) Sinha, N. (2022). ["Nectar in the diet of the Red-naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022Sinha_RNINectarDrinking_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 78–81.
21. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:11_21-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:11_21-1) Tere, A. (2022). ["Observations of colonially-nesting Red-naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa at Amla, Gujarat: nest tree preference and breeding success"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022Tere_ColonialNestingRNI_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 40–47.
22. **[^](#cite_ref-22)** ["Indian black ibis / Oriental black ibis / Red naped ibis (Pseudibis papillosa Temminck)"](http://www.ibisring.org/article/indian-black-ibis). *Ibisring*.
23. **[^](#cite_ref-23)** Ameta, Hitesh; Koli, Vijay Kumar; Sundar, K. S. Gopi (2024). ["Is Three a Crowd? Three Indian Ibis Species Vary Strategies to Achieve Sympatry Depending on Different Seasons, Landscapes and Habitats"](https://bioone.org/journals/waterbirds/volume-47/issue-1/063.047.0109/Is-Three-a-Crowd-Three-Indian-Ibis-Species-Vary-Strategies/10.1675/063.047.0109.full). *Waterbirds*. **47** (1). [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1675/063.047.0109](https://doi.org/10.1675%2F063.047.0109). [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [1524-4695](https://search.worldcat.org/issn/1524-4695).
24. **[^](#cite_ref-24)** Jerdon, T. C. (1864). *Birds of India: A natural history. Volume III*. Wyman and Co., Calcutta, India. pp. 769–770.
25. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:10_25-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:10_25-1) Mason, C.W. (1911). Maxwell-Lefroy, H. (ed.). [*The food of birds in India*](https://archive.org/stream/foodofbirdsinind00masorich#page/280/mode/2up/). Imperial Department of Agriculture in India. pp. 280–280–282.
26. **[^](#cite_ref-26)** Khan, Asif N. (2015). ["Indian Black Ibis Pseudibis papillosa feeding on carrion"](https://doi.org/10.17087%2Fjbnhs%2F2015%2Fv112i1%2F92323). *Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society*. **112** (1): 28. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.17087/jbnhs/2015/v112i1/92323](https://doi.org/10.17087%2Fjbnhs%2F2015%2Fv112i1%2F92323). [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [0006-6982](https://search.worldcat.org/issn/0006-6982).
27. **[^](#cite_ref-27)** Johnson, J. Mangalraj (2003). ["Black ibis Pseudibis papillosa feeding on frogs from crab holes"](https://biodiversitylibrary.org/page/48602685). *J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soc*. **100** (1): 111–112.
28. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:0_28-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:0_28-1) Inglis, C.M. (1903). ["The birds of the Madhubani sub-division of the Darbhanga district, Tirhut, with notes on species noticed elsewhere in the district. Part 6"](https://biodiversitylibrary.org/page/2096481). *Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society*. **15** (1): 70–77.
29. **[^](#cite_ref-29)** Baker, E. C. S. (1935). *The nidification of birds of the Indian empire Pandionidae-Podicepidae. Vol IV*. Taylor & Francis, London, UK.
30. **[^](#cite_ref-30)** Sangha, H. S. (2013). "Nesting of Black Ibis Pseudibis papillosa on electricity pylons near Bikaner, Rajasthan". *Indian Birds*. **8** (1): 10–11.
31. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:5_31-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:5_31-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-:5_31-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-:5_31-3) Juvvadi, Pranay S. (2022). ["Nesting substrates of Red-Naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa in human dominated landscapes of Telangana, India"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022Juvvadi_RNI_Telangana_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 48–54.
32. **[^](#cite_ref-32)** Ali, A.H.M.S.; Kumar, Ramesh; Arun, P.R. (2013). "Black ibis *Pseudibis papillosa* nesting on power transmission line pylons, Gujarat, India". *BirdingAsia*. **19**: 104–106.
33. **[^](#cite_ref-33)** Ali, M. S.; Kumar, S. R.; Arun, P. R. (2013). "Black Ibis Pseudibis papillosa nesting on power transmission line pylons, Gujarat, India". *BirdingAsia*. **19**: 104–106.
34. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:8_34-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:8_34-1) Tiwary, Nawin; Sundar, K. S. Gopi (2022). ["Special Section Editorial: Spotlight on the Red-naped Ibis Pseudibis papillosa"](https://storkibisspoonbill.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2022SpecialSectionEdit_TiwarySundar_Final.pdf) (PDF). *SIS Conservation*. **4**: 15–23.
35. **[^](#cite_ref-35)** Salimkumar, C.; Soni, V.C. (1984). ["Laboratory observations on the incubation period of the Indian Black Ibis *Pseudibis papillosa* (Temminck)"](https://biodiversitylibrary.org/page/48874097). *J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soc*. **81** (1): 189–191.
36. **[^](#cite_ref-36)** Hume, A.O. (1890). [*The nest and eggs of Indian Birds. Volume 3*](https://archive.org/stream/nestseggsofindia03humerich#page/228/mode/2up/) (2nd ed.). London: R.H. Porter. pp. 228–231.
37. **[^](#cite_ref-37)** Bhatt, Nirav (2022). "Reproductive Rate of the Red-Headed Falcon (Falco chicquera) in Surendranagar District, Gujarat, India". *Journal of Raptor Research*. **57** (1): 75–80. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.3356/JRR-21-73](https://doi.org/10.3356%2FJRR-21-73). [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [0892-1016](https://search.worldcat.org/issn/0892-1016).
38. **[^](#cite_ref-38)** Inglis, William G. (1954). "On some nematodes from Indian vertebrates. I. Birds". *Annals and Magazine of Natural History*. 12. **7** (83): 821–826. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1080/00222935408651795](https://doi.org/10.1080%2F00222935408651795).
39. **[^](#cite_ref-39)** Tandan, B.K. (1958). ["Mallophagan parasites from Indian birds-Part V. Species belonging to the genus *Ibidoecus* Cummings, 1916 (Ischnocera)"](https://web.archive.org/web/20111111024407/http://darwin.biology.utah.edu/PubsHTML/LicePubPages/LicePDF%27s/1958/Tandan1958.pdf) (PDF). *Transactions of the Royal Entomological Society of London*. **110** (14): 393–410. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1111/j.1365-2311.1958.tb00379.x](https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1365-2311.1958.tb00379.x). Archived from [the original](http://darwin.biology.utah.edu/PubsHTML/LicePubPages/LicePDF%27s/1958/Tandan1958.pdf) (PDF) on 2011-11-11. Retrieved 2015-08-14.
40. **[^](#cite_ref-40)** Faltynkova, Anna; Gibson, David I.; Kostadinova, Aneta (2008). "A revision of Patagifer Dietz, 1909 (Digenea: Echinostomatidae) and a key to its species". *Systematic Parasitology*. **70** (3): 159–183. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1007/s11230-008-9136-8](https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs11230-008-9136-8). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_(identifier) "PMID (identifier)") [18535788](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18535788). [S2CID](/wiki/S2CID_(identifier) "S2CID (identifier)") [20578624](https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:20578624).
41. **[^](#cite_ref-41)** Odening, Klaus (1962). "Trematoden aus indischen Vögeln des Berliner Tierparks". *Zeitschrift für Parasitenkunde* (in German). **21** (5): 381–425. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1007/BF00260995](https://doi.org/10.1007%2FBF00260995). [S2CID](/wiki/S2CID_(identifier) "S2CID (identifier)") [9506473](https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:9506473).
42. **[^](#cite_ref-42)** Chauhan P. P. S, Bhatia B. B. (1970). "Eimerian oozysts from Pseudibis papillosa". *Indian Journal of Microbiology*. **10** (2): 53–54.
43. **[^](#cite_ref-43)** Krishnan, M. (1986) The Anril. Reprinted without source details in *Nature's Spokesman* (2000) edited by Ramachandra Guha. Oxford University Press. pp. 93-95.
44. **[^](#cite_ref-44)** Varadarajan, Munuswamy (1957). [*The Treatment of Nature in Sangam Literature*](https://archive.org/stream/TreatmentNatureInSangamLiterature/Treatment%20nature%20in%20Sangam%20literature#page/n281/mode/2up). Tirunelveli: The South India Saiva Siddhanta Works Publishing Society. p. 260.
45. **[^](#cite_ref-45)** Dave, K.N. (1985). *Birds in Sanskrit literature*. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. p. 384.
46. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-jerdon_46-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-jerdon_46-1) [*The birds of India. Volume 3*](https://archive.org/stream/birdsofindiabein03jerd#page/768/mode/2up). Calcutta: George Wyman and Co. 1864. pp. 769–770.
47. **[^](#cite_ref-47)** Le Messurier, A. (1904). [*Game, Shore, and Water Birds of India*](https://archive.org/stream/gamesshoreandwat029723mbp#page/n191/mode/2up/) (4th ed.). London: W. Thacker and Co. pp. 183–184.
48. **[^](#cite_ref-48)** Dewar, Douglas (1920). [*Indian Birds being a key to the common birds of the plains of India*](https://archive.org/stream/indianbirdsbeing00dewa#page/217/mode/1up/). London: John Lane. p. 217.
49. **[^](#cite_ref-49)** Burton, Richard F. (1852). [*Falconry in the valley of the Indus*](https://archive.org/stream/falconryinvalle01burtgoog#page/n83/mode/2up/s). London: John Van Voorst. pp. 57–58.
50. **[^](#cite_ref-kushlan_50-0)** Hancock, James; Kushlan, James A.; Kahl, M. Philip (2010). *Storks, Ibises and Spoonbills of the World*. A&C Black. pp. 241–244.
51. **[^](#cite_ref-51)** Dhananjayan, Venugopal; Muralidharan, Subramanian (2010). "Levels of Organochlorine Pesticide Residues in Blood Plasma of Various Species of Birds from India". *Bulletin of Environmental Contamination and Toxicology*. **85** (2): 129–136. [Bibcode](/wiki/Bibcode_(identifier) "Bibcode (identifier)"):[2010BuECT..85..129D](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010BuECT..85..129D). [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1007/s00128-010-0045-6](https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs00128-010-0045-6). [ISSN](/wiki/ISSN_(identifier) "ISSN (identifier)") [1432-0800](https://search.worldcat.org/issn/1432-0800). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_(identifier) "PMID (identifier)") [20571760](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20571760).
52. **[^](#cite_ref-52)** Brouwer, Koen; Schifter, Herbert; Jones, Marvin L. (1994). "Longevity and breeding records of ibises and spoonbills in captivity". *International Zoo Yearbook*. **33**: 94–102. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.1111/j.1748-1090.1994.tb03561.x](https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1748-1090.1994.tb03561.x).

## External links

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Red-naped_ibis&action=edit&section=10 "Edit section: External links")]

Wikimedia Commons has media related to [Pseudibis papillosa](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Pseudibis_papillosa "commons:Category:Pseudibis papillosa").

[Wikispecies](/wiki/Wikispecies "Wikispecies") has information related to ***[Black ibis](https://species.wikimedia.org/wiki/Pseudibis_papillosa "wikispecies:Pseudibis papillosa")***.

* [Call recordings](http://www.xeno-canto.org/species/Pseudibis-papillosa)
* [Media on the Handbook of the Birds of the World website](https://web.archive.org/web/20160625103159/http://ibc.lynxeds.com/species/indian-black-ibis-pseudibis-papillosa)