---
title: "Morrigan Aensland"
source: "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morrigan_Aensland"
---

Fictional character

**Morrigan Aensland** ([Japanese](/wiki/Japanese_language "Japanese language"): モリガン・アーンスランド, [Hepburn](/wiki/Hepburn_romanization "Hepburn romanization"): *Morigan Ānsurando*) is a character and [protagonist](/wiki/Protagonist "Protagonist") in [Capcom](/wiki/Capcom "Capcom")'s *[Darkstalkers](/wiki/Darkstalkers "Darkstalkers")* series. Having debuted in 1994's *[Darkstalkers: The Night Warriors](/wiki/Darkstalkers:_The_Night_Warriors "Darkstalkers: The Night Warriors")*, she has since appeared in every game in the series and in various related media and merchandise, as well as in multiple video games outside the *Darkstalkers* line, including most entries in both *[Marvel vs. Capcom](/wiki/Marvel_vs._Capcom "Marvel vs. Capcom")* and *[SNK vs. Capcom](/wiki/SNK_vs._Capcom "SNK vs. Capcom")*.

Morrigan is a [succubus](/wiki/Succubus "Succubus") and a powerful princess (later queen) of the demon realm Makai, who is very vain and lives for little more than the excitement of battle, but slowly begins to take her royal responsibilities more seriously despite her obsessive fascination with the human world. She has a sister-like split part named [Lilith](/wiki/Lilith_(Darkstalkers) "Lilith (Darkstalkers)") and a rival named [Demitri Maximoff](/wiki/Demitri_Maximoff "Demitri Maximoff"), and her moveset is reminiscent of [Ryu](/wiki/Ryu_(Street_Fighter) "Ryu (Street Fighter)").

## Concept and creation

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=1 "Edit section: Concept and creation")]

Early in the development of *[Darkstalkers: The Night Warriors](/wiki/Darkstalkers:_The_Night_Warriors "Darkstalkers: The Night Warriors")*, Capcom had decided to include two female characters: a cute female vampire and a catgirl with massive breasts, the latter of which was originally intended to be the game's "sex appeal".[[6]](#cite_note-graphic_file-6)[[7]](#cite_note-7) According to story planner Haruo Murata, the former was planned to be the female figurehead of the game, similar to Chun-Li for *Street Fighter II*.[[8]](#cite_note-complete96-8) [Akira "Akiman" Yasuda](/wiki/Akira_Yasuda "Akira Yasuda") oversaw the development process, and expected a character similar to the comic book character [Vampirella](/wiki/Vampirella "Vampirella"). During the design process, Capcom producer Alex Jimenez suggested they instead make her a [succubus](/wiki/Succubus "Succubus"), as the game already had a male vampire planned.[[9]](#cite_note-complete213-9)[[10]](#cite_note-10) As a result the characters' roles shifted, with the catgirl [Felicia](/wiki/Felicia_(Darkstalkers) "Felicia (Darkstalkers)") becoming a cute character to offset the game's darker tones, while the succubus Morrigan became the game's sex symbol.[[6]](#cite_note-graphic_file-6)

Her finalized appearance came from Hiroshi Shibata, a member of the game's Objects team.[[1]](#cite_note-shibata-1)[[11]](#cite_note-complete63-11) Morrigan is a woman with long green hair and bangs, and wears a black leotard that cups her breasts with a heart-shaped cutout beneath her cleavage. The upper straps of the leotard are lowered around her shoulders, with a white feather trip extending around her shoulders and cleavage. Her legs are covered by purple tights with a bat pattern on them, while matching sleeves which extend from the leotard straps to her middle finger, and black high heel boots cover her feet. Two large bat wings extend from her lower back, while a secondary smaller set extends from the sides of her head. In an early version of her design a white skull decal was intended to cover the crotch of the leotard, but was later removed. She stands 172 cm (5 ft 8 in) tall, and has [measurements](/wiki/Bust/waist/hip_measurements "Bust/waist/hip measurements") of 86–56–83 cm (34-22-33 in).[[12]](#cite_note-all_about-12) Throughout her appearances, Morrigan has had several alternative outfits including a white unbuttoned white shirt and black pants, a [fetish wear](/wiki/Fetish_wear "Fetish wear") nurse's outfit, a Chinese [cheongsam](/wiki/Cheongsam "Cheongsam"), and Japanese formal dresses.[[13]](#cite_note-13)[[14]](#cite_note-14)

Her initial standing [sprite](/wiki/Sprite_(computer_graphics) "Sprite (computer graphics)") and several basic poses were designed by Yasuda, while the remainder of the animations were developed by Hiromi "Mori" Kotobuki.[[2]](#cite_note-mori-2)[[3]](#cite_note-mori2-3) According to Yasuda, Kotobuki was so impressed by her standing pose that he paid a lot of attention to detail when animating the character, particularly giving her fingers movement during it.[[9]](#cite_note-complete213-9) For her attacks and several of her movements, her wings were made to be a collection of shapeshifting bats that could form blades, drills and other items such as jetpacks to give her increased range and mobility. Her facial expressions when hit were meanwhile made more comical and less refined, something the development team felt suited the atmosphere of the *Darkstalkers* games.[[15]](#cite_note-savior-15) Meanwhile, her character portrays were designed by freelance illustrator Bengus, who added bags under her eyes to give her a more "Gothic" aesthetic. Though the development team was hesitant regarding this detail, Yasuda heavily praised it as exactly what he had been looking for with her design.[[9]](#cite_note-complete213-9)

The name Morrigan was also suggested by Jimenez, who felt it would fit nobility.[[16]](#cite_note-16)[[17]](#cite_note-17) Elements such as her rivalry with fellow character [Demitri Maximoff](/wiki/Demitri_Maximoff "Demitri Maximoff") were conceived when *[Gamest](/wiki/Gamest "Gamest")* magazine asked for additional details about the characters and their backstory after the release of the first game.[[18]](#cite_note-complete206-18) Meanwhile, her home location was placed in Scotland to tie into the ancestry behind her character's name.[[15]](#cite_note-savior-15) According to Murata, he felt Morrigan did a great job "playing out the seductive succubus role", while Yasuda expressed he was pleased with the results as it provided Capcom with a character they could use again and again in other titles.[[8]](#cite_note-complete96-8)[[9]](#cite_note-complete213-9)

Morrigan's character has been voiced in most games by [Yayoi Jinguji](/wiki/Yayoi_Jinguji "Yayoi Jinguji") until 2011, when the role was taken over by [Rie Tanaka](/wiki/Rie_Tanaka "Rie Tanaka"). Morrigan's English voice was provided by [Erin Fitzgerald](/wiki/Erin_Fitzgerald "Erin Fitzgerald") for *Cross Edge* and by Siobhan Flynn for the *Marvel vs. Capcom* series.

## Appearances

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=2 "Edit section: Appearances")]

### Video games

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=3 "Edit section: Video games")]

Introduced in the 1994 fighting game *Darkstalkers*, Morrigan is the adopted succubus daughter of the demon realm's ruler. Though she is heir to that throne, she has little interest in it and instead routinely travels to the human realm for stimulation and excitement,[[19]](#cite_note-19) and has a rivalry with the [vampire](/wiki/Vampire "Vampire") [Demitri Maximoff](/wiki/Demitri_Maximoff "Demitri Maximoff").[[20]](#cite_note-20) The follow-up title *[Vampire Savior](/wiki/Vampire_Savior "Vampire Savior")* introduces [Lilith](/wiki/Lilith_(Darkstalkers) "Lilith (Darkstalkers)"), a fragment of Morrigan's soul that was previously sealed away but now given its own body and identity by the demon lord [Jedah](/wiki/Jedah "Jedah"). Acting as Morrigan's "sister", the two would re-merge by the game's conclusion.[[21]](#cite_note-den-21) Since her first appearance, Morrigan has appeared in other fighting games such as *[Super Gem Fighter Mini Mix / Pocket Fighter](/wiki/Super_Gem_Fighter_Mini_Mix "Super Gem Fighter Mini Mix")*,[[22]](#cite_note-22) as well as several Capcom-produced crossover titles. These include *[Marvel vs. Capcom: Clash of Super Heroes](/wiki/Marvel_vs._Capcom:_Clash_of_Super_Heroes "Marvel vs. Capcom: Clash of Super Heroes")* and its sequels (with Lilith as an alternate [palette swap](/wiki/Palette_swap "Palette swap") version in the first game),[[21]](#cite_note-den-21)[[23]](#cite_note-23)[[24]](#cite_note-24)[[25]](#cite_note-25) *[Tatsunoko vs. Capcom](/wiki/Tatsunoko_vs._Capcom "Tatsunoko vs. Capcom")*,[[26]](#cite_note-ignvs-26)[[27]](#cite_note-tvc-27) as well as *[Capcom vs. SNK: Millennium Fight 2000](/wiki/Capcom_vs._SNK:_Millennium_Fight_2000 "Capcom vs. SNK: Millennium Fight 2000")* and its related sequels.[[21]](#cite_note-den-21)

In non-fighting games she appears in the crossover tactical role-playing game *[Namco × Capcom](/wiki/Namco_%C3%97_Capcom "Namco × Capcom")* as well as related titles *[Cross Edge](/wiki/Cross_Edge "Cross Edge")* and *[Project X Zone 2](/wiki/Project_X_Zone_2 "Project X Zone 2")*,[[28]](#cite_note-28)[[29]](#cite_note-29)[[30]](#cite_note-30)[[31]](#cite_note-31) and in puzzle games *[Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo](/wiki/Super_Puzzle_Fighter_II_Turbo "Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo")*, *Street Fighter Puzzle Spirits*,[[32]](#cite_note-4g-32) and *[Puzzle Fighter](/wiki/Puzzle_Fighter_(2017_video_game) "Puzzle Fighter (2017 video game)")*,[[33]](#cite_note-33)
and in several card games including *[SNK vs. Capcom: Card Fighters' Clash](/wiki/SNK_vs._Capcom:_Card_Fighters%27_Clash "SNK vs. Capcom: Card Fighters' Clash")*, *Street Fighter × All Capcom*,[[34]](#cite_note-34)[[35]](#cite_note-35) *Street Fighter Battle Combination*,[[36]](#cite_note-36) and *[Onimusha](/wiki/Onimusha "Onimusha") Soul*.[[37]](#cite_note-37) Other game appearances include the [Sega Dreamcast](/wiki/Sega_Dreamcast "Sega Dreamcast") port of [Psikyo](/wiki/Psikyo "Psikyo")'s shoot 'em up game *[Gunbird 2](/wiki/Gunbird_2 "Gunbird 2")*,[[38]](#cite_note-38) *[We Love Golf!](/wiki/We_Love_Golf! "We Love Golf!")*,[[39]](#cite_note-39) and *[Monster Hunter Frontier](/wiki/Monster_Hunter_Frontier "Monster Hunter Frontier")*.[[40]](#cite_note-40)

Furthermore, she has her own mobile game, titled **Osanpo Morrigan* (お散歩モリガン; 'Morrigan Taking a Walk')*,[[41]](#cite_note-41) Her collaboration guest appearances in mobile social games have included *Samurai Kingdom*[[42]](#cite_note-42) and *The Knights of Avalon*[[43]](#cite_note-43) among others, and her costume can be worn by [Chun-Li](/wiki/Chun-Li "Chun-Li") in *[Street Fighter V](/wiki/Street_Fighter_V "Street Fighter V")*[[44]](#cite_note-44) and by [Frank West](/wiki/Frank_West_(Dead_Rising) "Frank West (Dead Rising)") in action-adventure game *[Dead Rising 4](/wiki/Dead_Rising_4 "Dead Rising 4")*.[[45]](#cite_note-45)

### Other appearances

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=4 "Edit section: Other appearances")]

#### Other media

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=5 "Edit section: Other media")]

The 1997 anime [OVA](/wiki/Original_Video_Animation "Original Video Animation") series *[Night Warriors: Darkstalkers' Revenge](/wiki/Night_Warriors:_Darkstalkers%27_Revenge_(anime) "Night Warriors: Darkstalkers' Revenge (anime)")* features Morrigan like her game appearances, portraying her as an idle rich member of a royal family who is more interested in going to Earth than in her duties. She often leaves at will out of mere boredom, much to the frustration of her guardians, elder men of the Aensland family. Her father, Belial, is not mentioned. Princess Morrigan is shown fighting the werewolf [Jon Talbain](/wiki/Jon_Talbain "Jon Talbain") in the opening of the first three episodes. She seeks to battle the vampire lord Demitri Maximoff when he attempts to return to Makai, but their duel with erotic undertones[[46]](#cite_note-46) is interrupted when they are sensed by [Huitzil](/wiki/Huitzil "Huitzil"). In the final episode, Morrigan goes to Earth after Demitri was bested by Pyron and she encounters him unconscious in the ruins of his castle. Demitri suddenly awakens and attempts to vampirise Morrigan, but she does not resist, much to his surprise. Morrigan tells Demitri that he may become the leader of Makai after all, since a change of leadership is needed to help its current disarray from falling into destruction. They both later observe [Donovan's](/wiki/Donovan_(Darkstalkers) "Donovan (Darkstalkers)") victory over Pyron. The anime's Morrigan was voiced by [Rei Sakuma](/wiki/Rei_Sakuma "Rei Sakuma") and dubbed into English by [Kathleen Barr](/wiki/Kathleen_Barr "Kathleen Barr").

In the [UDON Comics](/wiki/UDON "UDON") series *[Darkstalkers](/wiki/Darkstalkers_(comics) "Darkstalkers (comics)")*, Morrigan is portrayed as a malevolent, evil and amoral succubus like the games, who wants nothing more than to visit the human world to eat human souls and dreams, and completely ignores her duty as future ruler of the Makai Realm. Morrigan's attitude annoys her father Belial and gets her two servants, Lucien and Mudo, into trouble. Eventually she hears of Demitri's restoration, and goes to her father to warn him, only to find that he is about to die. She takes on the responsibility that she has often put aside and returns to the human world to fight Demitri, and prove herself worthy of the Makai Realm and the power that Belial sealed away many years ago. In the special issue *Morrigan vs Demitri*, it is implied that had Belial not sealed away her power, Morrigan might have evolved into a being similar to Pyron and destroyed the Earth and Makai. In the comics, Morrigan's bats are the souls of her human victims, which are not destroyed but remain alive inside her body in a state of eternal bliss and pleasure after she drains them. Aside from consuming souls, Morrigan has no qualms about murdering and taking advantage on humans yet despite this, she sees herself as simply taking people's souls in exchange for eternal bliss."[[47]](#cite_note-47) She is also prominently featured in the followup series *Darkstalkers: The Night Warriors*, in which she, Demitri, Donovan, and Pyron all fight each other. In the later crossover series *Street Fighter vs Darkstalkers*, Morrigan keeps killing humans until she meets Lilith and finds out about Jedah's plan. Together with her enemy Chun-Li, as well as other uneasy allies, Morrigan and Lilith fight and defeat Jedah, and then they merge, finally restoring Morrigan to her full power. Despite everything she's done, Morrigan gets away with her crimes and is crowned queen of Makai.

Morrigan also appears in the comedic *Darkstalkers* drama CDs *Vampire Knight* (ヴァンパイア・ナイト), *Darkness Mission* (ダークネスミッション)[[48]](#cite_note-48) and *Dengeki CD Bunko EX: Vampire* (電撃CD文庫EX ヴァンパイア),[[49]](#cite_note-49) voiced by Rei Sakuma, [Kikuko Inoue](/wiki/Kikuko_Inoue "Kikuko Inoue") and [Yumi Tōma](/wiki/Yumi_T%C5%8Dma "Yumi Tōma"), as well as in multiple [yonkoma](/wiki/Yonkoma "Yonkoma") parody comics for that were largely compiled from fan submissions. She is often a lead character in various adaptations of *Darkstalkers*, such as the 1995 manga anthology *Dark Angel* (闇天使)[[50]](#cite_note-50) and Akihiko Ureshino's series of [gaiden](/wiki/Gaiden "Gaiden") novels, in particular in 1995's *Witch of the Crimson Moon* (紅い月の魔女)[[51]](#cite_note-51) and 1996's *Where the Souls Go* (魂の還るところ).[[52]](#cite_note-52) Morrigan stars in Run Ishida's 1996 manga which was published in English by [Viz Comics](/wiki/Viz_Media "Viz Media") in two different versions in 1998 and 2000 as *Night Warriors: Darkstalkers' Revenge*, spending the entire second half of the 2000 tradeback edition fighting Donovan,[[53]](#cite_note-53) as well as in Mami Itou's 1997 *Darkstalkers/Red Earth: Maleficarum*, a *[Red Earth](/wiki/Red_Earth_(video_game) "Red Earth (video game)")* crossover manga published in English by UDON Comics in 2010[[54]](#cite_note-54) and was re-released in Japan in 2015.[[55]](#cite_note-55) Hiroaki Wakamiya's 1996 manga *Victor: Messenger of Doomsday* (終末の使者 ビクトル) has Morrigan use her [secret identity](/wiki/Secret_identity "Secret identity") human persona of the biotechnology researcher Professor Mori to study the human world.

In the U.S. made non-canon cartoon series *[Darkstalkers](/wiki/Darkstalkers_(TV_series) "Darkstalkers (TV series)")*, Morrigan was redesigned as character and changed into a villain, voiced by [Saffron Henderson](/wiki/Saffron_Henderson "Saffron Henderson"). Morrigan's character in the cartoon is jealous, rude, power-hungry and despising humans, especially men. She is implied to actually eat her victims and stated to be a direct descendant of the evil sorceress [Morgan le Fay](/wiki/Morgan_le_Fay "Morgan le Fay") (with the series' protagonist, an original character named Harry Grimoire, being a descendant of [Merlin](/wiki/Merlin "Merlin")).[[56]](#cite_note-AT-56) Her appearance was also altered, making her look slightly older and wear a less revealing costume; [GamesRadar](/wiki/GamesRadar "GamesRadar") commented [USA](/wiki/USA_Network "USA Network") "gave her a look more appropriate for the [Wicked Witch of the West](/wiki/Wicked_Witch_of_the_West "Wicked Witch of the West") than a sexy, soul-sucking, battle-loving demon."[[57]](#cite_note-gamesradar-57)

## Promotion and reception

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=6 "Edit section: Promotion and reception")]

Scores of various figures and statuettes of Morrigan were produced by different manufacturers.[[58]](#cite_note-:1-58) These include the figures released by Capcom themselves,[[59]](#cite_note-59)[[60]](#cite_note-60)[[61]](#cite_note-61)[[62]](#cite_note-62) [Diamond Select Toys](/wiki/Diamond_Select_Toys "Diamond Select Toys"),[[63]](#cite_note-63) E246,[[64]](#cite_note-sultry-64) [Marvel](/wiki/Marvel_Toys "Marvel Toys"),[[65]](#cite_note-65) Max Factory,[[66]](#cite_note-66) Pop Culture Shock Collectibles,[[67]](#cite_note-67)[[68]](#cite_note-68) and [SOTA Toys](/wiki/SOTA_Toys "SOTA Toys")[[69]](#cite_note-69) among many others. Other Morrigan-themed merchandise include Capcom's wall scrolls and posters,[[70]](#cite_note-70)[[71]](#cite_note-71)[[72]](#cite_note-72)[[73]](#cite_note-73) T-shirts,[[74]](#cite_note-74)[[75]](#cite_note-75)[[76]](#cite_note-76) covers,[[77]](#cite_note-77) a large microfiber towel,[[78]](#cite_note-78) and so forth.

In 1996, *[Mean Machines Sega](/wiki/Mean_Machines_Sega "Mean Machines Sega")* described her as "one of the most bewitching girl characters ever to appear in gaming", noting her large Japanese fanbase which included men and women.[[79]](#cite_note-mms-79) Morrigan is widely seen as the most iconic character of *Darkstalkers*, arguably even more than the franchise itself, and one of the most popular female characters of video games in general.[[80]](#cite_note-:0-80) Anthony Gramuglia of *[CBR](/wiki/Comic_Book_Resources "Comic Book Resources")* noted that Morrigan's popularity not only stemmed from her character, but also the character's popularity in cosplay and fan-art communities.[[80]](#cite_note-:0-80) [Helen McCarthy](/wiki/Helen_McCarthy "Helen McCarthy")'s 2009 book *500 Essential Anime Movies: The Ultimate Guide* additionally cited Morrigan as an example of the popularity of the *Darkstalkers* character designs, with fans frequently cosplaying as the character at various conventions since the original game's release.[[81]](#cite_note-81)

Since her debut, Morrigan has been a popular character, resulting in the creation of large amounts of fan works, such as statuetes, [cosplays](/wiki/Cosplay "Cosplay") and [fan art](/wiki/Fan_art "Fan art").[[64]](#cite_note-sultry-64) Morrigan has featured in many [doujinshi](/wiki/Doujinshi "Doujinshi") unofficial self-published content,[[82]](#cite_note-82) including [erotic comics](/wiki/Erotic_comics "Erotic comics")[[58]](#cite_note-:1-58) and pornographic films.[[83]](#cite_note-83) Manga artist [Hiroaki Samura](/wiki/Hiroaki_Samura "Hiroaki Samura"), creator of the manga *[Blade of the Immortal](/wiki/Blade_of_the_Immortal "Blade of the Immortal")*, released his own doujin of the character titled *Night of the Succubus*.[[84]](#cite_note-84)[[11]](#cite_note-complete63-11) Meanwhile, Korean video game artist and Shift Up founder Kim Hyung Tae stated her design alongside Lilith's led him to "see the unique allure of women wearing tights", something that heavily impacted his character designs afterward.[[85]](#cite_note-complete11-85)

M. Mar Martínez-Oña and Ana M. Muñoz-Muñoz cited Morrigan as an example of iconography of [Lilith](/wiki/Lilith "Lilith"), who has been traditionally depicted as a "as a highly eroticized devil, usually figured with horns and wings". They further cited a statement by Dr. Vicent Francesc Zuriaga Senent, who argued modern depictions of devils often showed them as not something to be feared, but to be desired.[[86]](#cite_note-86)

## See also

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=7 "Edit section: See also")]

* [List of succubi in fiction](/wiki/List_of_succubi_in_fiction "List of succubi in fiction")

## References

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=8 "Edit section: References")]

1. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-shibata_1-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-shibata_1-1) Yasuda, Akira [@akiman7] (14 December 2022). [モリガンデザインは柴田洋 という人です 下の名前は憶えてないのでインターネットで調べた あきまんは監修だけです](https://web.archive.org/web/20230721212544/https://twitter.com/akiman7/status/1602861022733180929) ([Tweet](/wiki/Tweet_(social_media) "Tweet (social media)")) (in Japanese). Archived from [the original](https://x.com/akiman7/status/1602861022733180929) on 21 July 2023 – via [Twitter](/wiki/Twitter "Twitter").
2. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-mori_2-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-mori_2-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-mori_2-2) [Yasuda, Akira [@akiman7]](/wiki/Akira_Yasuda "Akira Yasuda") (29 April 2024). [ヴァンパイヤは基本監修業やってたので ドットは各キャラ基本ドットと 基本やられを描いて モリガンなどは俺が基本ドット打ったあとは森君というエレナとかスト2のサガットもやってるドッターの人がやりました](https://web.archive.org/web/20241108173012/https://publish.twitter.com/?query=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fakiman7%2Fstatus%2F1784816940927889785&widget=Tweet) [I was doing the basic supervision work for Darkstalkers, so I drew the basic dots and basic damage for each character, and after I did the basic dots for things like Morrigan, Mori-kun, a sprite artist who also did Elena and Sagat from Street Fighter 2, did it.] ([Tweet](/wiki/Tweet_(social_media) "Tweet (social media)")) (in Japanese). Archived from [the original](https://x.com/akiman7/status/1784816940927889785) on 8 November 2024. Retrieved 8 November 2024 – via [Twitter](/wiki/Twitter "Twitter").
3. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-mori2_3-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-mori2_3-1) [Yasuda, Akira [@akiman7]](/wiki/Akira_Yasuda "Akira Yasuda") (4 November 2024). [これ作った人、モリガンのドットアニメも担当してるしサガットのドットアニメも担当してる なんならキャミィのドットアニメを担当してる 作った人がXをはじめたらしい ↓ 寿ひろみ @FluOUGWNM997870](https://web.archive.org/web/20241108171951/https://publish.twitter.com/?query=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fakiman7%2Fstatus%2F1853410324998975946&widget=Tweet) [The person who made this is also in charge of Morrigan's pixel animation and Sagat's pixel animation. I'm in charge of Cammy's pixel animation. Apparently the creator started X. ↓ Hiromi Kotobuki @FluOUGWNM997870] ([Tweet](/wiki/Tweet_(social_media) "Tweet (social media)")). Archived from [the original](https://x.com/akiman7/status/1853410324998975946) on 8 November 2024. Retrieved 8 November 2024 – via [Twitter](/wiki/Twitter "Twitter").
4. **[^](#cite_ref-4)** ["Siobhan Flynn Official Website - Voice"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160715023716/http://siobhanflynn.net/voice/). Archived from [the original](http://www.siobhanflynn.net/voice/) on 15 July 2016. Retrieved 9 August 2016.
5. **[^](#cite_ref-5)** [Fitzgerald, Erin [@ErinFitzgerald]](/wiki/Erin_Fitzgerald "Erin Fitzgerald") (22 April 2013). ["RT: "@Deva\_Ashera Hi there, you did the voice for Morrigan Aensland in Cross Edge, right?" Yes I was! Wish I could be here all the time!"](https://web.archive.org/web/20210515231133/https://twitter.com/ErinFitzgerald/status/326466741268017152) ([Tweet](/wiki/Tweet_(social_media) "Tweet (social media)")). Archived from [the original](https://x.com/ErinFitzgerald/status/326466741268017152) on 15 May 2021 – via [Twitter](/wiki/Twitter "Twitter").
6. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-graphic_file_6-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-graphic_file_6-1) *Darkstalkers Graphic File*. [UDON Entertainment](/wiki/UDON_Entertainment "UDON Entertainment"). December 2008. p. 57, 68. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [9781897376041](/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781897376041 "Special:BookSources/9781897376041").
7. **[^](#cite_ref-7)** *Darkstalkers: Official Complete Works Hardcover*. [UDON Entertainment](/wiki/UDON_Entertainment "UDON Entertainment"). October 2019. p. 98. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [9781772941203](/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781772941203 "Special:BookSources/9781772941203").
8. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-complete96_8-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-complete96_8-1) *Darkstalkers: Official Complete Works Hardcover*. [UDON Entertainment](/wiki/UDON_Entertainment "UDON Entertainment"). October 2019. p. 96. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [9781772941203](/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781772941203 "Special:BookSources/9781772941203").
9. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-complete213_9-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-complete213_9-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-complete213_9-2) [***d***](#cite_ref-complete213_9-3) *Darkstalkers: Official Complete Works Hardcover*. [UDON Entertainment](/wiki/UDON_Entertainment "UDON Entertainment"). October 2019. p. 213-214. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [9781772941203](/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781772941203 "Special:BookSources/9781772941203").
10. **[^](#cite_ref-10)** [*Darkstalkers: Movie Monsters - Pop Facts*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cjySkuLk2D4). [GameTrailers](/wiki/GameTrailers "GameTrailers"). 5 July 2016. Event occurs at 1:30. Retrieved 24 May 2024 – via [YouTube](/wiki/YouTube "YouTube").
11. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-complete63_11-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-complete63_11-1) *Darkstalkers: Official Complete Works Hardcover*. [UDON Entertainment](/wiki/UDON_Entertainment "UDON Entertainment"). October 2019. p. 63. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [9781772941203](/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781772941203 "Special:BookSources/9781772941203").
12. **[^](#cite_ref-all_about_12-0)** [Studio BentStuff](/wiki/Studio_BentStuff "Studio BentStuff") (25 November 1994). *All About Vampire* (in Japanese). Vol. 6. Dempa Shimbun. pp. 52–57. JAN 1018362111400.
13. **[^](#cite_ref-13)** ["SUPER STREET FIGHTER IV & STREET FIGHTER X 鉄拳｜オフィシャルブログ"](http://www.capcom.co.jp/blog/sf4/saikyo_blog/2013/03/15_7259.html). Capcom. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140908111539/http://www.capcom.co.jp/blog/sf4/saikyo_blog/2013/03/15_7259.html) from the original on 8 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
14. **[^](#cite_ref-14)** Richard Eisenbeis (19 October 2012). ["Capcom's Heroes Look Awesome as Samurai"](https://kotaku.com/capcoms-heroes-look-awesome-as-samurai-1064767996). Kotaku.com. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20160824114944/http://kotaku.com/capcoms-heroes-look-awesome-as-samurai-1064767996) from the original on 24 August 2016. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
15. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-savior_15-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-savior_15-1) [Studio BentStuff](/wiki/Studio_BentStuff "Studio BentStuff") (20 August 1997). *All About Vampire Savior* (in Japanese). Vol. 20. Dempa Shimbun. p. 71. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [4885544742](/wiki/Special:BookSources/4885544742 "Special:BookSources/4885544742").
16. **[^](#cite_ref-16)** [Studio BentStuff](/wiki/Studio_BentStuff "Studio BentStuff") (25 November 1994). *All About Vampire* (in Japanese). Vol. 6. Dempa Shimbun. p. 217. JAN 1018362111400.
17. **[^](#cite_ref-17)** ["VIDEO: "Darkstalkers" Developer Roundtable Digs into the Fighter's Past"](http://www.crunchyroll.com/anime-news/2013/04/21/video-darkstalkers-developer-roundtable-digs-into-the-fighters-past). *Crunchyroll*. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20180516014844/http://www.crunchyroll.com/anime-news/2013/04/21/video-darkstalkers-developer-roundtable-digs-into-the-fighters-past) from the original on 16 May 2018. Retrieved 15 May 2018.
18. **[^](#cite_ref-complete206_18-0)** *Darkstalkers: Official Complete Works Hardcover*. [UDON Entertainment](/wiki/UDON_Entertainment "UDON Entertainment"). October 2019. p. 206. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [9781772941203](/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781772941203 "Special:BookSources/9781772941203").
19. **[^](#cite_ref-19)** [PS3/Xbox 360『ヴァンパイア リザレクション』のキャラクター、"デミトリ"と"モリガン"の紹介映像が公開【動画あり】](http://www.famitsu.com/news/201302/12028596.html). *[Famitsu](/wiki/Famitsu "Famitsu")*. 12 February 2013. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20160821160513/http://www.famitsu.com/news/201302/12028596.html) from the original on 21 August 2016. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
20. **[^](#cite_ref-20)** Goulter, Tom (12 October 2012). ["*Darkstalkers Resurrection* roster - Meet all 18 characters"](https://www.gamesradar.com/darkstalkers-resurrection-roster-meet-all-18-characters/2/). *[GamesRadar+](/wiki/GamesRadar%2B "GamesRadar+")*. p. 2. Retrieved 11 November 2024.
21. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-den_21-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-den_21-1) [***c***](#cite_ref-den_21-2) Jasper, Gavin (21 October 2019). ["Darkstalkers: The History of Capcom's Monster Fighting Game"](https://www.denofgeek.com/games/darkstalkers-the-history-of-capcoms-monster-fighting-game/). *[Den of Geek](/wiki/Den_of_Geek "Den of Geek")*. Retrieved 11 November 2024.
22. **[^](#cite_ref-22)** ["ポケットファイター"](https://web.archive.org/web/20100407210211/http://www.capcom.co.jp/newproducts/consumer/pocket/chara.html). Capcom. Archived from the original on 7 April 2010. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
23. **[^](#cite_ref-23)** ["Marvel Vs. Capcom 3 Will Be a "Living Comic" With A Deep Story"](https://kotaku.com/5518024/marvel-vs-capcom-3-will-be-a-living-comic-with-a-deep-story). Kotaku.com. 20 April 2010. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20121013182826/http://kotaku.com/5518024/marvel-vs-capcom-3-will-be-a-living-comic-with-a-deep-story) from the original on 13 October 2012. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
24. **[^](#cite_ref-24)** ["ULTIMATE MARVEL VS. CAPCOM® 3 – Official Site – Characters – Morrigan"](https://web.archive.org/web/20141013171347/http://www.marvelvscapcom3.com/us/characters/morrigan). Archived from [the original](http://www.marvelvscapcom3.com/us/characters/morrigan) on 13 October 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2014.
25. **[^](#cite_ref-25)** Makuch, Eddie (4 December 2016). ["Captain America and Morrigan Revealed for Marvel vs. Capcom Infinite"](http://www.gamespot.com/articles/captain-america-and-morrigan-revealed-for-marvel-v/1100-6445962/). *[GameSpot](/wiki/GameSpot "GameSpot")*. [CBS Interactive](/wiki/CBS_Interactive "CBS Interactive"). [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20170305063239/http://www.gamespot.com/articles/captain-america-and-morrigan-revealed-for-marvel-v/1100-6445962/) from the original on 5 March 2017. Retrieved 4 December 2016.
26. **[^](#cite_ref-ignvs_26-0)** Bozon, Mark (9 July 2009). ["The Fighters of Tatsunoko vs. Capcom"](https://www.ign.com/articles/2009/07/09/the-fighters-of-tatsunoko-vs-capcom). IGN. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20191221221216/https://www.ign.com/articles/2009/07/09/the-fighters-of-tatsunoko-vs-capcom) from the original on 21 December 2019. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
27. **[^](#cite_ref-tvc_27-0)** ["TATSUNOKO VS. CAPCOM ULTIMATE ALL-STARS"](https://web.archive.org/web/20150403075520/http://tatsunoko.vscapcom.com/cha_morrigan.html). Archived from [the original](http://tatsunoko.vscapcom.com/cha_morrigan.html) on 3 April 2015. Retrieved 6 October 2014.
28. **[^](#cite_ref-28)** AJ Glasser (8 May 2009). ["Cross Edge Crosses The Sexy Line"](https://kotaku.com/5246243/cross-edge-crosses-the-sexy-line). Kotaku.com. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140607022009/http://kotaku.com/5246243/cross-edge-crosses-the-sexy-line) from the original on 7 June 2014. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
29. **[^](#cite_ref-29)** ["PS2 NAMCO x CAPCOM | キャラクター"](http://bandainamcoent.co.jp/cs/list/namco_x_capcom/character/index.php). Bandainamcoent.co.jp. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20160304201016/http://bandainamcoent.co.jp/cs/list/namco_x_capcom/character/index.php) from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
30. **[^](#cite_ref-30)** ["Project X Zone Review"](http://www.gamerevolution.com/review/project-x-zone). Gamerevolution.com. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140809190306/http://www.gamerevolution.com/review/project-x-zone) from the original on 9 August 2014. Retrieved 29 June 2014.
31. **[^](#cite_ref-31)** Romano, Sal (5 August 2015). ["Project X Zone 2: Chun-Li, Alisa, and more return"](https://www.gematsu.com/2015/08/project-x-zone-2-chun-li-alisa-more-return). *Gematsu*. Retrieved 30 March 2024.
32. **[^](#cite_ref-4g_32-0)** ["「ストパズ」，「ヴァンパイア」のモリガンとフェリシアが期間限定で登場"](http://www.4gamer.net/games/277/G027771/20150430140/). 4Gamer.net. 14 April 2015. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20180516014927/http://www.4gamer.net/games/277/G027771/20150430140/) from the original on 16 May 2018. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
33. **[^](#cite_ref-33)** Yamanaka, Taijiro (1 September 2017). ["カプコンの落ち物パズル続編『Puzzle Fighter』がモバイル向けに海外発表。リュウ・モリガン・ダンテ・フランクさんなど勢揃い"](https://jp.automaton.am/articles/newsjp/20170901-53672/). *AUTOMATON* (in Japanese). [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20171102215309/http://jp.automaton.am/articles/newsjp/20170901-53672/) from the original on 2 November 2017. Retrieved 30 July 2018.
34. **[^](#cite_ref-34)** ["Street Fighter X All Capcom Is The Cutest Capcom Mashup To Date"](http://www.siliconera.com/2013/10/30/street-fighter-x-capcom-cutest-capcom-mashup-date/). Siliconera. 30 October 2013. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140523230517/http://www.siliconera.com/2013/10/30/street-fighter-x-capcom-cutest-capcom-mashup-date/) from the original on 23 May 2014. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
35. **[^](#cite_ref-35)** ["ストリートファイター×オールカプコン 公式プロモーションサイト 【カプコンオンラインゲームズ】"](https://web.archive.org/web/20140417092906/http://www.sf-ac.jp/pc/). Sf-ac.jp. Archived from [the original](http://www.sf-ac.jp/pc/) on 17 April 2014. Retrieved 23 May 2014.
36. **[^](#cite_ref-36)** ["「ストリートファイター バトルコンビネーション」「第1回世界格闘大会」を実施"](http://www.4gamer.net/games/227/G022786/20150414063/). 4Gamer.net. 30 March 2015. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20180516015006/http://www.4gamer.net/games/227/G022786/20150414063/) from the original on 16 May 2018. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
37. **[^](#cite_ref-37)** ["鬼武者Soul CAPCOMタイトルコラボ"](http://members.oni-soul.jp/contents/collabo/index_f.html#collabo). [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20141203192610/http://members.oni-soul.jp/contents/collabo/index_f.html#collabo) from the original on 3 December 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
38. **[^](#cite_ref-38)** Thomas Wilde, [Gunbird 2](http://www.gamingtarget.com/article.php?artid=1117) [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20131103165823/http://gamingtarget.com/article.php?artid=1117) 3 November 2013 at the [Wayback Machine](/wiki/Wayback_Machine "Wayback Machine"), Gaming Target, 21 August 2001.
39. **[^](#cite_ref-39)** Jason Dobson, [Ken and Morrigan shown hitting the links in We Love Golf](http://www.joystiq.com/2008/05/16/ken-and-morrigan-shown-hitting-the-links-in-we-love-golf/) [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20121020221159/http://www.joystiq.com/2008/05/16/ken-and-morrigan-shown-hitting-the-links-in-we-love-golf/) 20 October 2012 at the [Wayback Machine](/wiki/Wayback_Machine "Wayback Machine"), Joystiq, 16 May 2008.
40. **[^](#cite_ref-40)** ["CAPCOM:MHF公式メンバーサイト"](http://members.mh-frontier.jp/topic/payment/premiumkit/vampire/). Members.mh-frontier.jp. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20120905111041/http://members.mh-frontier.jp/topic/payment/premiumkit/vampire/) from the original on 5 September 2012. Retrieved 12 April 2014.
41. **[^](#cite_ref-41)** ["株式会社カプコン：CAPCOM WORLD JAPAN"](https://web.archive.org/web/20120208183222/http://www.capcom.co.jp/keitai/action/action03.html). Capcom.co.jp. Archived from [the original](http://www.capcom.co.jp/keitai/action/action03.html) on 8 February 2012. Retrieved 12 April 2014.
42. **[^](#cite_ref-42)** ["マイネットゲームス、『戦乱のサムライキングダム』で『VAMPIRE RESURRECTION』コラボを開催！ コラボレアガチャに「モリガン」や「フェリシア」登場"](https://gamebiz.jp/?p=214922). *Social Game Info* (in Japanese). [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20180730050633/https://gamebiz.jp/?p=214922) from the original on 30 July 2018. Retrieved 30 July 2018.
43. **[^](#cite_ref-43)** ["マイネットゲームス、『アヴァロンの騎士』がカプコン名作ゲームとコラボイベント 「超魔界村」や「ヴァンパイアシリーズ」など | Social Game Info"](https://gamebiz.jp/?p=223598). *Social Game Info* (in Japanese). [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20181123112126/https://gamebiz.jp/?p=223598) from the original on 23 November 2018. Retrieved 23 November 2018.
44. **[^](#cite_ref-44)** ["『ストリートファイターV』向け『ヴァンパイア』コスチューム第2弾が近日配信！ ハロウィンコスチュームも"](https://www.gamespark.jp/article/2018/09/18/83867.html). *Game\*Spark – 国内・海外ゲーム情報サイト* (in Japanese). [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20181123065817/https://www.gamespark.jp/article/2018/09/18/83867.html) from the original on 23 November 2018. Retrieved 23 November 2018.
45. **[^](#cite_ref-45)** ["Dead Rising 4. Primeras impresiones para Xbox One y PC"](http://es.ign.com/dead-rising-4-xbox-one/104584/preview/dead-rising-4-primeras-impresiones-para-xbox-one-y-pc). *IGN España* (in European Spanish). 14 June 2016. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20180516015659/http://es.ign.com/dead-rising-4-xbox-one/104584/preview/dead-rising-4-primeras-impresiones-para-xbox-one-y-pc) from the original on 16 May 2018. Retrieved 15 May 2018.
46. **[^](#cite_ref-46)** [Jonathan Clements](/wiki/Jonathan_Clements "Jonathan Clements"), [Helen McCarthy](/wiki/Helen_McCarthy "Helen McCarthy"), *The Anime Encyclopedia, Revised & Expanded Edition: A Guide to Japanese Animation Since 1917*. Stone Bridge Press, 2012.
47. **[^](#cite_ref-47)** "Into the Darkness: The Darkstalkers Comic Book". *Play*. **37**. Fusion Pub. January 2005.
48. **[^](#cite_ref-48)** ["ヴァンパイアハンター ダークネスミッション～特選バター醤油味～ | 中古 | アニメ系CD | 通販ショップの駿河屋"](http://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/120035637001). Suruga-ya.jp. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20170404173828/http://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/120035637001) from the original on 4 April 2017. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
49. **[^](#cite_ref-49)** ["電撃CD文庫EX ヴァンパイア ～ザ ナイト ウォーリアーズ～ | 中古 | アニメ系CD | 通販ショップの駿河屋"](http://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/120026700001). Suruga-ya.jp. 25 July 1995. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20170511002836/http://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/120026700001) from the original on 11 May 2017. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
50. **[^](#cite_ref-50)** ["闇天使(ダークエンジェル)COMICS ヴァンパイアハンターヒロインコミックアンソロジー / アンソロジー | 中古 | その他コミック | 通販ショップの駿河屋"](http://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/WR3684). Suruga-ya.jp. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20181112101357/https://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/WR3684) from the original on 12 November 2018. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
51. **[^](#cite_ref-51)** ["ヴァンパイアハンター外伝(モリガン編)紅い月の魔女：中古本・書籍：嬉野秋彦(著者)：ブックオフオンライン"](http://www.bookoffonline.co.jp/old/0012321803). Bookoffonline.co.jp. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20160917002701/http://www.bookoffonline.co.jp/old/0012321803) from the original on 17 September 2016. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
52. **[^](#cite_ref-52)** ["下)ヴァンパイア セイヴァー 魂の還るところ / 嬉野秋彦 | 中古 | ライトノベル(文庫) | 通販ショップの駿河屋"](http://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/2K9454). Suruga-ya.jp. 29 October 1997. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20170510195113/http://www.suruga-ya.jp/product/detail/2K9454) from the original on 10 May 2017. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
53. **[^](#cite_ref-53)** "Manga Scene: Night Warriors". *GameFan*. **8** (11): 101. January 2000.
54. **[^](#cite_ref-54)** ["Udon Entertainment to Publish Darkstalkers / Red Earth: Maleficarum Manga"](https://www.animenewsnetwork.com/news/2010-05-22/udon-entertainment-to-publish-darkstalkers/red-earth/maleficarum-manga). Anime News Network. 22 May 2010. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20190422053942/https://www.animenewsnetwork.com/news/2010-05-22/udon-entertainment-to-publish-darkstalkers/red-earth/maleficarum-manga) from the original on 22 April 2019. Retrieved 22 May 2010.
55. **[^](#cite_ref-55)** ["伊藤真美が「ヴァンパイア」「ウォーザード」描く作品集が復刻、特典も | マイナビニュース"](http://news.mynavi.jp/news/2015/06/23/696/). News.mynavi.jp. 23 June 2015. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20160914033242/http://news.mynavi.jp/news/2015/06/23/696/) from the original on 14 September 2016. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
56. **[^](#cite_ref-AT_56-0)** Keith Busby, *Arthurian Literature XVIII*, 2001 (p. 250).
57. **[^](#cite_ref-gamesradar_57-0)** Winterhalter, Ryan (8 July 2010). ["Five truly horrendous TV shows based on videogames"](https://www.gamesradar.com/five-truly-horrendous-tv-shows-based-upon-videogames/?page=2). GamesRadar. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140714164540/http://www.gamesradar.com/five-truly-horrendous-tv-shows-based-upon-videogames/?page=2) from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 8 June 2014.
58. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:1_58-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:1_58-1) ["Hobby Consolas 089"](https://archive.org/stream/HobbyConsolas089/Hobby_Consolas_089#page/n119/mode/1up/). February 1999. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20160316094359/https://archive.org/stream/HobbyConsolas089/Hobby_Consolas_089#page/n119/mode/1up/) from the original on 16 March 2016. Retrieved 4 May 2014.
59. **[^](#cite_ref-59)** ["Capcom Figure Builder | News 新着情報"](https://web.archive.org/web/20140512230928/http://www.capcom.co.jp/goods/cfb/news/news_140507.html). Capcom.co.jp. Archived from [the original](http://www.capcom.co.jp/goods/cfb/news/news_140507.html) on 12 May 2014. Retrieved 10 May 2014.
60. **[^](#cite_ref-60)** ["While You Wait For A New Darkstalkers, Check Out Morrigan's New Figurine – Siliconera"](https://web.archive.org/web/20140904141047/http://www.siliconera.com/2014/06/20/wait-new-darkstalkers-check-morrigans-new-figurine/). *Siliconera*. Archived from [the original](http://www.siliconera.com/2014/06/20/wait-new-darkstalkers-check-morrigans-new-figurine/) on 4 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
61. **[^](#cite_ref-61)** ["一番くじ カプコン30th Anniversary｜アイルー公式サイト"](https://web.archive.org/web/20140904161035/http://www.capcom.co.jp/goods/airou/product/toy/1402_02.html). Capcom. Archived from [the original](http://www.capcom.co.jp/goods/airou/product/toy/1402_02.html) on 4 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
62. **[^](#cite_ref-62)** 電撃ホビー編集部. ["『ヴァンパイア』モリガン・アーンスランドが大胆なナース衣装でカプコンから登場です！ | 電撃ホビーウェブ"](https://web.archive.org/web/20160609224021/http://hobby.dengeki.com/news/212976/). Hobby.dengeki.com. Archived from [the original](http://hobby.dengeki.com/news/212976/) on 9 June 2016. Retrieved 7 July 2016.
63. **[^](#cite_ref-63)** ["New Diamond Select Toys Now On Sale – News"](http://marvel.com/news/toys/2011/12/29/17898/new_diamond_select_toys_now_on_sale). Marvel.com. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140905001511/http://marvel.com/news/toys/2011/12/29/17898/new_diamond_select_toys_now_on_sale) from the original on 5 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
64. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-sultry_64-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-sultry_64-1) ["Darkstalkers' Sultry Succubus Has Never Looked Quite So Good"](https://kotaku.com/5959393/darkstalkers-sultry-succubus-has-never-looked-so-good). Kotaku.com. 10 November 2012. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140903051328/http://kotaku.com/5959393/darkstalkers-sultry-succubus-has-never-looked-so-good) from the original on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
65. **[^](#cite_ref-65)** ["Amazon.com: Marvel Vs. Capcom Captain America vs. Morrigan: Toys & Games"](https://www.amazon.com/Marvel-Capcom-Captain-America-Morrigan/dp/B00153AKAG/). *Amazon*. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140905001456/http://www.amazon.com/Marvel-Capcom-Captain-America-Morrigan/dp/B00153AKAG) from the original on 5 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
66. **[^](#cite_ref-66)** ["Curvy Capcom Demon Gets New Figurine"](https://kotaku.com/5163981/curvy-capcom-demon-gets-new-figurine). Kotaku.com. 4 March 2009. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140714125950/http://kotaku.com/5163981/curvy-capcom-demon-gets-new-figurine) from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
67. **[^](#cite_ref-67)** ["Morrigan Statue Does Not Beat Around The Breast"](https://kotaku.com/5022832/morrigan-statue-does-not-beat-around-the-breast). Kotaku.com. 8 July 2008. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140714190515/http://kotaku.com/5022832/morrigan-statue-does-not-beat-around-the-breast) from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
68. **[^](#cite_ref-68)** ["Darkstalkers, Street Fighter Get Pop Culture (Sticker) Shock"](https://kotaku.com/5029697/darkstalkers-street-fighter-get-pop-culture-sticker-shock/). Kotaku.com. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140903051335/http://kotaku.com/5029697/darkstalkers-street-fighter-get-pop-culture-sticker-shock/) from the original on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
69. **[^](#cite_ref-69)** ["The Loving Embrace of a Darkstalkers Statue"](https://kotaku.com/5818868/the-loving-embrace-of-a-darkstalkers-statue/). Kotaku.com. 7 July 2011. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140714193040/http://kotaku.com/5818868/the-loving-embrace-of-a-darkstalkers-statue/) from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
70. **[^](#cite_ref-70)** ["イーカプコン │ カプコンオフィシャルショップ"](https://web.archive.org/web/20150923221150/http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005007/10/10/srDispProductList/). E-capcom.com. Archived from [the original](http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005007/10/10/srDispProductList/) on 23 September 2015. Retrieved 25 August 2015.
71. **[^](#cite_ref-71)** ["Big Vampire Tapestry / Morrigan & Lilith"](https://web.archive.org/web/20141006133106/http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005007/11/10/srDispProductList/). E-Capcom. Archived from [the original](http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005007/11/10/srDispProductList/) on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2014.
72. **[^](#cite_ref-72)** ["Capcom Store – Buy Darkstalkers Poster Sets"](https://web.archive.org/web/20140904155033/http://shop.capcom.com/store/capcomus/en_US/pd/ThemeID.1944700/productID.285166400/Darkstalkers-Movie-Poster-Set.html). Archived from [the original](http://shop.capcom.com/store/capcomus/en_US/pd/ThemeID.1944700/productID.285166400/Darkstalkers-Movie-Poster-Set.html) on 4 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
73. **[^](#cite_ref-73)** [「モリガン」のビッグバスタオルがイーカプコンで受注開始、ベンガス描き下ろしイラストを使用](https://web.archive.org/web/20180730050505/https://www.inside-games.jp/article/2018/02/14/112765.html). *インサイド* (in Japanese). Archived from [the original](https://www.inside-games.jp/article/2018/02/14/112765.html) on 30 July 2018. Retrieved 30 July 2018.
74. **[^](#cite_ref-74)** ["Vampire T-shirt / Morrigan / S"](https://web.archive.org/web/20141006141110/http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005008/10/10/srDispProductList/). Archived from [the original](http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005008/10/10/srDispProductList/) on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2014.
75. **[^](#cite_ref-75)** ["Capcom Store – Buy Darkstalkers t-shirt 3-pack"](https://web.archive.org/web/20140904152631/http://shop.capcom.com/store/capcomus/en_US/pd/ThemeID.1944700/productID.265721600/Darkstalkers-Tshirt-3pack.html). Archived from [the original](http://shop.capcom.com/store/capcomus/en_US/pd/ThemeID.1944700/productID.265721600/Darkstalkers-Tshirt-3pack.html) on 4 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2014.
76. **[^](#cite_ref-76)** ["「モンスターハンター ゆるTシャツ」、第2弾の受注を開始 「ストライダー飛竜」、「キャプテンコマンドー」のオリジナルデザインTシャツも登場"](https://web.archive.org/web/20180730050521/https://game.watch.impress.co.jp/docs/news/1080373.html). *GAME Watch* (in Japanese). 12 September 2017. Archived from [the original](https://game.watch.impress.co.jp/docs/news/1080373.html) on 30 July 2018. Retrieved 30 July 2018.
77. **[^](#cite_ref-77)** ["E-Capcom Limited Original smartphone cover Vampire Morrigan & Felicia (Phase 2)"](https://web.archive.org/web/20141006095527/http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005010/17/10/srDispProductList/). Archived from [the original](http://www.e-capcom.com/ec/srDispProductListProductLink/doProductTreeLink/1/1/A10005010/17/10/srDispProductList/) on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2014.
78. **[^](#cite_ref-78)** [「モリガン」のビッグバスタオルがイーカプコンで受注開始、ベンガス描き下ろしイラストを使用](https://web.archive.org/web/20180730050505/https://www.inside-games.jp/article/2018/02/14/112765.html). *インサイド* (in Japanese). Archived from [the original](https://www.inside-games.jp/article/2018/02/14/112765.html) on 30 July 2018. Retrieved 23 November 2018.
79. **[^](#cite_ref-mms_79-0)** "Vampire Hunter". *Mean Machines Sega*. No. 40. February 1996. p. 20.
80. ^ [***a***](#cite_ref-:0_80-0) [***b***](#cite_ref-:0_80-1) Gramuglia, Anthony (5 February 2021). ["Darkstalkers Has Become Obscure, but Morrigan Aensland Is STILL an Icon"](https://www.cbr.com/darkstalkers-morrigan-aensland-icon/). *CBR*. Retrieved 19 March 2024.
81. **[^](#cite_ref-81)** McCarthy, Helen (2009). *500 Essential Anime Movies: The Ultimate Guide*. Collins Design. p. 214. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [978-0-06-147450-7](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-06-147450-7 "Special:BookSources/978-0-06-147450-7").
82. **[^](#cite_ref-82)** *GameAxis Unwired*, November 2008, [page 17](https://books.google.com/books?id=yeoDAAAAMBAJ&q=Morrigan).
83. **[^](#cite_ref-83)** ["Japanese Porn Is Overdosing on Video Games and Anime"](https://kotaku.com/5902602/japanese-porn-is-overdosing-on-video-games-and-anime/). Kotaku.com. 17 April 2012. [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20140606113625/http://kotaku.com/5902602/japanese-porn-is-overdosing-on-video-games-and-anime/) from the original on 6 June 2014. Retrieved 16 June 2014.
84. **[^](#cite_ref-84)** Gramuglia, Anthony (5 February 2021). ["Darkstalkers Has Become Obscure, but Morrigan Aensland Is STILL an Icon"](https://www.cbr.com/darkstalkers-morrigan-aensland-icon/). *[Comic Book Resources](/wiki/Comic_Book_Resources "Comic Book Resources")*. Retrieved 12 June 2024.
85. **[^](#cite_ref-complete11_85-0)** *Darkstalkers: Official Complete Works Hardcover*. [UDON Entertainment](/wiki/UDON_Entertainment "UDON Entertainment"). October 2019. p. 11-12. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [9781772941203](/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781772941203 "Special:BookSources/9781772941203").
86. **[^](#cite_ref-86)** Martínez-Oña, M. Mar; Muñoz-Muñoz, Ana M. (2022). "Lilith en la cultura audiovisual. Arte, Publicidad, Cine y Videojuegos". [*Comunicación, pantallas y ficción*](https://digibug.ugr.es/handle/10481/87007). pp. 403–416. [doi](/wiki/Doi_(identifier) "Doi (identifier)"):[10.5281/zenodo.10533161](https://doi.org/10.5281%2Fzenodo.10533161). [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_(identifier) "ISBN (identifier)") [978-84-1124-251-6](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-84-1124-251-6 "Special:BookSources/978-84-1124-251-6"). Retrieved 7 June 2024.

## External links

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Morrigan_Aensland&action=edit&section=9 "Edit section: External links")]

* Media related to [Morrigan Aensland](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Morrigan_Aensland "commons:Category:Morrigan Aensland") at Wikimedia Commons