---
source: kaggle
---

There is currently a contentious argument that the most effective method for young people to learn about cooperation is by doing team sports, rather than other alternatives. Despite the fact that doing sports as a team could inarguably strengthen collaboration skills of children, I personally believe that there are also other vital ways to upskill them in this aspect.
It is true that doing team sports could possibly lead to the collaboration of children. A classic example of this is that they have to jointly cooperate with other team members in order to achieve the team’s goal. This is because reaching the goal in team sports requires each member to not only do their responsibility, but also to help other members to maximize the performance of the team. In addition, supporters of doing team sports may argue that children will also learn to communicate with other members, which is one of key factors for cooperation. As a result, when young people have better communication skills, they tend to be willing to collaborate with other people in any situation.
In spite of the aforementioned positive effects on juveniles with respect to the cooperation, the juveniles could also be encouraged to cooperate by working in a group as another alternative way. A common example of this is they have to think from other perspectives, which is an essential skill for collaboration. When juveniles work with other people, they would inevitably encounter with a wide variety of ideas which they might disagree with. Therefore, they have to understand the ideas from the others’ point of view in order to reach a consensus. Furthermore, another key point for cooperation that adolescents will learn is delegation. This is because tasks that a group has to complete might requires various knowledge. Hence, adolescents have to delegate each task to each group member based on the expertise.
In conclusion, it is undeniable that doing team sport will positively result in the collaboration of children since they would get exposed to situations, requiring them to help and communicate with other team members. Nevertheless, I totally disagree with the notion that team sport is the best way to teach children to collaborate since doing assignment in a group could also teach and motivate them to cooperate with other people in terms of thinking from other points of view and work delegation.