---
source: kaggle
---

To be a part of a modern society people must follow laws that are set in place by the superior authorities. Some agree that if there would be no rules, our society could not function the way it does now. This essay will argue why rules and laws are necessary for a functioning society.
Some people have such high moral standarts, that even if there would be no rules, they would act exactly as they are with rules set in place. These people are geniunely kind and would never want to cheat ir cause harm to another person. It is not the law that makes them act this way, but rather their personality and values. This is why if everyone would be like this, no laws would be necessary, because people would act humane and want only the best for eachother.
The society we live in could not exist without rules and laws set in place to control it. Everyone is different and they have a different value system and understanding of what is an acceptable action and what is not. Some people believe that it is ok to steal from another, cheat or do harm to another person. Only thing that tries to keep them in place is our system law enforcement, that promises consequences if the rules are broken. For many people this is enough to live by the rules. However, even with the laws set in place, some still break them for their own benifit. If people commit crime, knowing that they can be punished for it, how many more would do harm if there would be no consequences to their action? For these reasons our world could not run without it being regulated by the system of law.
To conclude, even though some people naturally follow rules, it is not enough for a functioning society, because many others would feel free to do what they want to. Ultimately, our society could not function as it does now, if there would be no laws and rules to follow, and the possibility of serious consequences if those are broken.