---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays, the Internet has become without doubt the most powerful, convenient and free source of information and communication. It has dramatically changed how we communicate with each other and how we obtain news. With only one push of button on our devices like a smart phone or a laptop we can speak our family members who are thousand miles away from us or read current news without a need for watching TV or buying a newspaper. However, this convenience of the Internet carries some potential threats to the users such as violation of their privacy rights and overflow of unreliable information. Therefore, the users should demand some forms of regulations of the Internet to reduce these risks.
Certainly, the use of the Internet needs to be regulated if we want to preserve our privacy when using it. Unfortunately, there is an enormous flow of our personal data on the Internet. For example, we eagerly share a lot of information about ourselves simply from our name, address, phone number to more serious one like our accounts number or social security. However, the big sales companies very often buy an access to this data to target us and influence our choices. This practice should be illegal and we as the users need to have a say how our personal data should be handled on the Internet. For this reason, we need to demand privacy laws to have better control how our personal information is managed on the Internet.
Another risk of having the Internet free from regulation is that we have no means of protection from unreliable information. I find this risk very dangerous since many people have used the Internet as their primary source of news and rely on it to stay updated with daily news. Now, anybody can become a reporter as long as he or she has access to the Internet. Simply, people can write and post their comments that often don’t have any factual or scientific base. We have witnessed this misinformation during the debate regarding vaccinations for the COVID-19. Many people who objected to be vaccinated made up their mind reading some posts on the Facebook or the Twitter that stated harmfulness of vaccines. These posts are allowed to be posted, because the social media don’t have any obligation to check the content of posts. Clearly, this wouldn’t happen if there were some forms of regulations that can verify better factual content of information on the Internet, so the potential readers can avoid the risk of misinformation.
Surely, the Internet can no longer stay without any regulatory laws. These policies are necessary to protect our privacy and keep us informed with more reliable information. Simply, the regulation polices of the Internet give us more power to be in control when using the Internet to obtain information or share personal data.