---
source: kaggle
---

The use of products and goods with a lot of packaging is a highly controversial topic between people today. A lot of people believe it is the manufacturers and supermarkets responsibility to reduce packaging of goods, while others believe that it is the individuals responsibility to avoid buying products with a lot of wrapping and packaging. I personally believe that it is the individuals responsibility to cease buying products with an increased amount of packaging, since a decrease in demand from customers could prevent further production of these goods.
The people that is of the opinion that it is the manufacturers and supermarkets responsibility to reduce the amount of packaging, believe that these companies have a moral obligation to preserve and protect the environment. In my country it is believed that these companies should be held responsible by the government. For example in Denmark the government provides manufacturers and stores with certain environmental regulations, which also include the amount of material these facilities are allowed to use for packaging. This helps reduce environmental harm and provides more responsibility to companies to reduce packaging.
However, the majority of people believe that this problem is an individual responsibility. This opinion considers that the moral obligation falls on the individual and not the company. The people who believe that it is an individual responsibility to not buy these products, believe that a decreased demand for products that harms the environment will lead to more environmentally friendly products produced.
To summarize, both of these opinions help reduce environmental harm. However, I believe that it is the individuals responisibility to not purchase overly packaged products, since this decrease in demand would lead to less production of these goods.