---
source: kaggle
---

Whether people should be encouraged more to study vocational courses due to the lack of workforce in that area or be encouraged to study at the university remains a big discussion. I believe both of these areas of study should be promoted equally, countries need academics as well as qualified workers.
One of the reasons that supports the encouragement to study either area, academic or vocational, is the worldwide need for the two types of professionals. For example, Australian government is currently offering work visas and permanent residencies to overseas qualified workers such as, carpenters, cooks, bar managers as well as doctors, nurses and psychologists. Essentially, this demonstrates that the two areas are equally needed and this happens in Canada and England too.
Another point to be considered is the increase in the people's needs due to the population growth, which, therefore, affects the need for more experts in all sectors. This includes professional from different fields, such as science, construction and even thinkers. If people is encouraged to study more in one field than others, this might be detrimental to societies, leaving one sector significantly more affected. Eventually, countries need a balance in the areas choosen for people to growth a career.
In conclusion, I support the idea of encouraging both, university and vocational studies. Many countries worldwide have expressed their need for the two types of workers. Besides, as the population is rapidly increasing, the need for experts in multiples areas is increasing too, so promoting both is the only way to maintain a balance.