---
source: kaggle
---

The domestic migration from countryside to urban areas is a constant fact in a great number of parts of the globe, which results in problems, especifically in cities. In my opinion, some of the causes might be the transition from agricultural to technological economies and the lack of support from governments to coutryside economy. I will suggest that major support and promotion of the agricultural services might encourage people to stay at coutryside.
The national migration is a well-know fact that happen into the countries as a product of technological advancements and its impact in the national and international economy. The service sector is nowadays the main activity within the countries, which resulted in more opportunities along the the cities of the world because this sector is mainly located in cosmopolitan areas, therefore, rural people have decided to emigrate to the cities seeking to improve their standard of living. Additionally, with the growth of the service sector, governments have reduced the funding for countryside which resulted in high rates of unemployed people in that regions. This lack of support, encourage the movement of people as a negative side effects in the cities because of overcowded populations.
In order to mitigate the overcrowded populations accross the cities in the world, it is crucial to support and promote the country side economies to avoid the movement of people domestically. Governmments need to increase the budged allocated to rural areas, but additionally, they ought to provide better systems to promote and increase the participation of agricultural economies. If farmers find the adecuate support to produce the farms, they are less unlikely to abandond their lands because they already have a livelyhood. This support may impact benefically in cities because differents social issues could be reduced.
In conclusion, it is an undeniable fact that the domestic migration happens because of technological advancements and lack of support to countryside economy. Nonetheless, if some measures are incremented and adecuated to the countryside. I strongly believe that farmers are likely to work their lands instead of migrate.