---
source: kaggle
---

The pie charts summarize the responses of surveys conducted between MBA graduates and employers that asked each participating group a very specific question. The MBA students were asked what their reasons for studying this major, whereas the employers needed to give the explanations for hiring them.
According to the data from the student pie chart, the most popular reason for deciding to study MBA major was its high probability of finding and securing better jobs opportunities after graduation. Over 65% of students gave this reason as main one. Another reason for studying MBA was the prospect of performing their future job better. However, this reason had a significantly lower ratio compared to the most popular one. About 15 % of the students chose this reason as an important one. The least favorite ones were personal development -12% of graduates found it crucial and a chance of helping others had the lowest rank only 8%.
On the other hand, the employers’ numbers didn’t reflect a sharp difference among potential reasons to hire new graduates. They seemed to find equally important their reasons. The employers value the most the personality and the previous work experience. Roughly, 25% of employers stated these reasons as essential when hiring. The numbers form the survey indicated that about 20% of employers were interested in finding if a potential employee had any job qualifications and job connections. In their ranking system the appearance was mentioned as the least reason to consider when hiring a new employee. Approximately only 10% of employers found it significant.
Comparing date from both charts we can conclude that the students and the employers valued different reasons for their choices. Most students decided to study MBA as their major, because it gave them better job opportunities. Apparently, the educational reason wasn’t significant at all to the employers. It seemed likely that their hiring decisions would be based on a candidate’s personality and work experience, qualifications and appearance.