---
source: kaggle
---

These days it is firmly believed that the most efficient method to teach children in schools how to work together is through team sports. This essay disagrees with the statement since some young students might not enjoy playing sports and because team sports can raise competitiveness amongst children, hence having a negative impact on their friendly relationships.
First of all, although it is vital for a children to play sports and keep fit, not everyone is keen on football, rugby and volleyball. Instead, some young students prefer spending their leisure time on other activities such as joining a chorus group or teathre lessons. These activities can encourage cooperation and make children get along with each other, as well. On the other hand, forcing children to play something they doesn't feel comfortable in can make them withdraw from the team game, which would make them feel excluded.
In addition, teams sports do not always promote cooperation among players. In some cases, inequities or particularly ambitious behaviours can lead to violent competitiveness, instead. It is generally thought that sport is an extremely selective environment, in fact you need to exercise daily in order to keep fit. If obese children took part in those team sports as well, they could feel isolated because they do not own the perfect body to perform well.
In conclusion, although team sports are a great method to teach children how to get along with each other, there are various activities which can encourage cooperation among children, as well. Therefore, it is considerably significant for a school to embrace diversity and make children play with what they really like, instead of forcing them to do something they feel they don't belong.