---
source: kaggle
---

It is certainly true that many people around the world find their lives dominated by the work that they have to do. This is shown when you realise how people’s work, and how much time, effort and resources they devote to it, is often the subject of conversation.Most people depend on their jobs to generate an income to pay for their lives’ necessities and luxuries, and so work can naturally become a dominating focus. As this is an important part of nearly everyone’s everyday life, it can seem that people’s lives are indeed becoming more influenced by their jobs. Whether this emphasis on work is more significant now than in previous years is debatable. In many developed countries around the world, there are procedures in place to help people with finding work, providing unemployment benefits, ensuring education, and offering pension payments. In times past, these provisions were not in place and a job or business was required to provide the necessary income.Therefore, in spite of increases in the cost of living in many places around the world, it can be argued there is actually less pressure than in previous years to keep one’s job and perform well at it. This, in turn, would lead to people’s lives being less influenced by their jobs today. It is also true that in the past, people were as responsible and focused on doing well in their responsibilities as today and so, in this respect, the people of the past would be equally dedicated to their work as people are today.While I agree that people’s lives today are often dominated by their jobs, I feel that the current situation is not necessarily worse than before. In fact, it may be more positive, due to the fewer pressures to earn money in many countries.