---
source: kaggle
---

The world today is often divided into two categories, more developed and less developed countries. This division is significant in terms of health, wealth and education. To minimise this gap, it is argued that richer countries are morally responsible to support the less wealthy. I, personally, feel that the prosperous countries are obligated and expected to to contribute to the development of countries with weaker economies.To address this argument, the history of the wealthy countries is relevant. Many less developed countries are former colonies, therefore the wealthy countries had a historical impact on the less wealthy. Thus, richer countries’ economies were dependent on the currently less developed countries for their rich status. Furthermore, even today the wealthy countries contribute to the wealth inequality by exploiting the inhabitants of less developed countries, giving workers lower wages than people within their own countries. Due to this dependence on poorer countries and the influence that the richer countries have had on the imbalance, it can be concluded that richer countries are indeed morally obliged to help the less wealthy countries.Opposing this is the view that each country is in charge of their own inhabitants and that therefore they need to provide health, education and basic necessities for themselves. In addition, simply providing these three services would not lead to closing the wealth gap. It would rather be helpful to invest sustainably in poorer countries and help them create their own systems, allowing these countries to be self-sufficient.In conclusion, while there is a moral necessity for wealthy countries to aid the poorer ones, simply providing basic necessities is not sufficient. A more sustainable idea would be to teach countries to plan and provide for themselves by giving economic incentives.