---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays everyone is suffering from the lack of time. People try to cope with everything and do their best all the time but we do not have superpowers or an ability not to sleep 24 hours. Honestly, I firmly believe that it is closely linked to not having a hobby these days.
Needless to say, time spent on the leisure activities plunged compare to the last century. I firmly believe that one of the main reasons is an addiction to the usage of various technologies. The majority of teenagers cannot live a day without their phone. They try to hide from troubles in that unreal world of communication. I understand that a hobby can also be online, for instance, videogaming but, as I know, really few people perceive it that way. Honestly, the problem is not only in the modern decade, adults also often do not have a specific hobby. The reason of that can be only their overworking and willingness to achieve more than they have at the moment. This race to the best never ends and, sadly, affects others too. Children adopt the habits of their parents. It is a green light for young people to behave in the same way, to think only about work and do not spend any time outside.
On the other side, obesity, bad mental health and demotivation can be an effect caused by not having a passion for any activity. I have a great example of the topic - it is me. I had played football professionally for 5 years until I decided to quit the training because of a sense of disinterest in what I do with my life. After, although I started to feel worse and worse, I could not do anything else. I spend all day at the computer doing homework now. I firmly think that I am not the only person who cannot handle with feelings such as anxiety or sadness. Maybe it could be better if I had a stronger character but I guess that a large proportion of my peers think that they would never get enough of joy, therefore it is not only my problem.
To sum up, it is clearly understandable that internet and “tendency to be depressed” of present generation are rapidly displacing hobbies from human life. We need to think more about that problem because, in my opinion, we are really close to be as emotional and alive as robots.