---
source: kaggle
---

Some people believe that the science of food and how to make meals should be introduced in schools while others argue that schools should offer only important subjects. I believe that the science of food and how to prepare it should be part of the school subjects as it can bring several benefits in student’s lives. Thus, this essay discusses how creating an understanding of good nutrition, health and well-being it’s important for students to support positive learning and development.
Modern society with the advertisement of fast food and new products rich in sugar is addressing children and teenagers to choose junk food over healthy. Thus, it is important for schools to introduce the science of food into their curriculum. This subject can positively influence the students’ choices about nutrition creating knowledge about food categories, compositions and nutritional values. For example, promoting a healthy and balanced diet can support the students to establish the mindset of acknowledging what they are introducing in their bodies and consequently finding specific foods that might positively impact their well-being.
Contrarily, there’s the belief that such a subject will reduce the time available for more didactical learning like math, geography or literacy. It might be true as not everyone could be interested in learning about food. However, if observing in detail the science of food, it is evident that it involves a series of challenging topics such as chemistry, biology, food engineering and microbiology.
To sum up, while some people think that introducing the science of food could be detrimental to students’ learning as it would reduce the time available for more didactical subjects, on the other hand, learning about food and its composition, can be beneficial as it provides with the knowledge that can support healthy eating and wellbeing.