---
source: kaggle
---

For many years, the traditional teaching and learning (T&L) approach, i.e., having a teacher disseminating knowledge to a group of students in a classroom, is dominent over the world.
With the advancement of information and communication technology, new learning approaches have been proposed and adopted. For example, students can now use computers to surf the internet to find information or knowledge they would like to study. Moreover, a number of pre-recorded education contents are now available online to provide classes/tutorials to learners. It is expected that this tradition T&L approach will not exist by 2050. Would it be true?
There is no doube that there is an increasing number of T&L approaches due to emergence of new technologies. Together with the new approaches, we see there is a shift of the role of teachers these years, not only as one who is responsible to disseminate knowledge, but also a faciliator of learning. Teachers provide proper directions to students during their study, where current technology is not able to offer. Some people say the artificial technology is a threat, but still the accuracy of providing suggestions to students is not very high. Moreover, human teachers are able to provide emotional support to students. Studying is not just a robotic process of human beings. Students may encounter difficulties during the learning process and feel frustrated, which will eventually affect their progression in study. Human teachers could be more aware on this situation, not by the numeric assessment results, but the emotional behaviour of the students in the classroom, and provide prompt and proper counselling support and advice to the students.
Also, it is still well-known that computers, even with AI, are weak in creating new knowledge. In the university setting, other than teaching the conventional knowledge, professors would disseminate their new research findings to the students in the class, with discussion among the students, inspiring them to the unexplored areas. This T&L process can only be effective when it happens in a classroom setting.
In conclusion, technology may alter the way how we teach and learn. In spite of this, human teachers are also adaptive and certain roles of the teachers cannot be replaced by other tools or machines. Therefore, I believe that the tradition classroom T&L setting cannot be replaced completedly in the future.