---
source: kaggle
---

With new technologies come new ways to communicate with people. First, we had emails and now we have social media and a variety of different apps that give us the opportunity to chat with one another. And this kind of online communication entered not only our personal but also our professional life. This topic is rather controversial and people have different opinions about that, so in this essay, I'm gonna be talking about pros and cons of the new type of working communication.
First, I would like to start with some advantages of online communication at work. In my opinion, the main thing that makes people go from meeting face to face to talk online is the fact that it's more convenient. We don't have to set a specific date to meet someone. And also we can talk to someone from wherever we want, without needing to drive to the office. The two things we need are our cellphone or computer and the internet connection. But I think nowadays it won't be a problem for anyone because the majority of people have each of this stuff.
The second advantage - the functionality of apps for online communication. Let's take Zoom. I think almost everyone used this app in 2020 during lockdowns all over the world, including myself. You can arrange a meeting with thousands of people, using this app. This is much easier than gathering large amounts of people in one place. You can also record this meeting if you wish and send this recording to people who were absent or use it yourself in the future to remember all the details. Face to face meetings do not provide us with all these opportunities.
If we talk about disadvantages, I do not see a lot of them. The only thing that we can miss in online communication is the ability to see human emotions and facial expressions. I find it really important, especially when it comes to discussing important projects or deals. From my own experience, I can say that when there was a lockdown in my country due to the pandemic, I missed physical interaction with my colleagues, such as handshaking, etc. I find physical interaction to be an effective way for team building, so it's might be hard to work without it, using only online communication.
To conclude, I would say that everyone can have different opinions about whether it's better to meet online or face to face. But what I am sure about is that we should not get rid of face to face meetings completely. Otherwise, It will be hard to keep the team tigh-knit.