---
source: kaggle
---

It is no doubt the truth that the majority of people want to live in a society where they can derive a sense of satisfaction. While people are ceaselessly struggling to improve society to meet their needs, there is almost always some problems or issues that remain and keep society from being better. In this essay, I try to examine the reason why it is a highly challenging and even impossible task to create an ideal society and give some measures that might be helpful to mitigate the situation.
The first step is to understand why the goal of an ideal society is tough to achieve. One of the most apparent reasons is that it is nearly not possible to give an explicit definition of ideality. Since the desire of each person can be extremely different and individual, their expectations of what an excellent society should look like are immensely varied and sometimes incompatible with each other. For instance, some people wish to have a society of fewer foreign immigrants because of the eventual rise in crime and the more intensive competitiveness in the job market, while others insist that a multicultural society certainly brings vast amounts of merits to the future. Another obvious reason is in terms of the difficulty of realizing the requirements. A prime example is eliminating discrimination against gender or sexual orientation. Although a lot of related laws have been introduced to protect the vulnerable population from being discriminated against, this issue remains one of the most significant concerns that people have and need to face every day.
Despite the complexity and challenges of creating the ideal society for everyone, there is still a large number of things that can be done to enhance the expectations of people toward the society where they live. In my opinion, an ideal society includes at least great tolerance. I believe that education, especially in primary school and kindergarten, plays an essential role in teaching how to treat others with respect, which benefits the tolerant atmosphere in society significantly. One measure that government should leastwise take into account is to fund the more meaningful projects at the school, which publicize and advocate the value of fairness, justice, and kindness.
To sum up, although it might not be possible to create a society that satisfies the whole population regarding the huge diversity of attitudes people hold toward the key consideration of an ideal society, there is still highly necessary to make every effort to make it a better one for all.