---
source: kaggle
---

Life is full of competition. Soon after the release from competitive university exams, the hard fighting for higher positions in a company will be waiting for you. While the competitiveness has been bringing us a convenient society, no small number of employments have been tired of never-ending competitions. No doubt about a positive effect on societies, but when we start to argue about the effect on individuals, it becomes more controversial. This essay will argue the drawbacks of competitiveness for individuals, especially from the perspective of Japanese modern society and typical Japanese office workers. I believe that cooperativeness and uniqueness are sometimes more important attitude than competitiveness.
Firstly, competitiveness causes less diversity. If there is a competition, there must be the same evaluation metrics to differentiate winners and losers. The evaluation procedure needs to limit the metrics into specific aspects of the human being. Therefore, it is extremely difficult to prove that the metrics are proper for all of the possible cases and effective for the HR evaluation. For example, Japanese companies are likely to judge quantitatively based on the numbers related to performance. However, how can we evaluate the cooperativity or the non-quantitative performance like in creative jobs? Most Japanese companies adopted the HR evaluation methods based on average working hours per day and number of reports monthly. That’s why the Japanese tend to overwork to fulfill this requirement. In addition, as a result of placing more importance in quantity of reports, rather than quality, Japanese employees are prone to choose easy and short-term tasks or outsourcing instead of building by their own methods. This tendency causes fewer complicated and long-term tasks.
Secondly, competitiveness causes less cooperativeness. Fewer people volunteer to play a disadvantageous role for smooth teamwork. Moreover, some people play an evil role by blaming or cheating the competitors in order to be superior to them. As a consequence, overall efficiency will decline and some people will be overestimated. Even if there are no problems temporarily, the long-lasting large companies will eventually become corrupt, and those who have the most political power, rather than real power, will remain at the top.
Consequently, competitiveness is the basis of capitalism which brings us a brighter and more convenient society, however, biased evaluation and less cooperative working environment possibly drive people into nervous breakdowns. Karoshi, overwork death derived from too much stress and less sleeping, is one of the most serious social problems in Japan. We may need to rethink about the competitiveness.