---
source: kaggle
---

Material achievement has been discussed at a high frequency in some countries; people widely involve this topic in every aspect of their lives. This essay will give two possible reasons for this phenomenon and explain the negative impacts on society.
Two major causes keep people lingering on this topic. Firstly, the difficulties in earning a living in some countries have significantly drawn people's focus on finance. For instance, more job opportunities are needed for job seekers in countries with low productivity. Besides that, in many low-income countries, people have to endure low pay; in some extreme cases, their earnings can not cover their spending. Therefore, tremendous anxiety cause people from these countries constantly talk about their financial situations.
On the other side, flaunting is becoming the mainstream mindset in some countries. Commonly, in some countries that just escaped poverty, the increasing spared money makes showing off possible. People in these countries display their wealth by owning luxurious items, such as branded bags or jewelry. Therefore, money naturally becomes essential in their conversations.
Although the reasons for money focusing vary, it might develop into risky societal factors. If the frequent discussion of finance is due to insufficient employment or inadequate wages, it is an alarm to the governments to carry on measures of boosting industries' development. Otherwise, riots might be expected and harm social safety. Furthermore, this widespread discussion highly leads to material comparison, which harms morality and even allows crimes to occur. When individuals obsess with showing off, they feel the shame of disposing of the downsides. To maintain a perfect image- especially a wealthy appearance, some people even turn to crime, such as stealing or robbery.
To conclude, folks popularly discuss money for various reasons, such as the demands of work or psychological factors. However, the phenomenon is not a positive sign to society and most likely indicates the upcoming crisis.