---
source: kaggle
---

Champions have been heralded across cultures and religions for centuries. Hercules from Greek mythology and Samson from the Bible were known for their strength. Hermes, the messenger of the Greek gods adorned winged sandals to grant him the speed of wind. From ancient to current times, champions have shared their skills via sports. But a question has arisen. What takes presedence, brain or brawn?
For those who believe that physical strength is important for success in sport, we must consider the effort put into performing said activities. Running a marathon is easier said than done! Raising over 500kg above your head doesn't happen overnight, or rowing in appealing synchronization without training. Athletes train in gyms for countless hours by running on treadmills, strength training and doing plyometrics to develop the power in order to effectively perform their respective sports, thus proving the importance of physical strength to prevail in sports.
Others believe that in order to distinguish between the average and the greats, mental strength is the factor that does so. The amount of discipline, perserverance and other psychological strengths allow athletes to set world records. Former world's strong man, Eddie Hall has stated that he had used techniques from psychologists to unlock parts of the brain that provide super strength similar to that people use in life threatening situations to lift cars to save their children. He was able to become the first man to deadlift over 500kg. Though not as extreme, sportsmen and women must apply some form of mental strength to push themselves to achieve record-level excellence in sports.
I believe that brain and brawn harmoniously work together to create exceptional champions in sports. Physical strength is the baseline that allows athletes to perform their skills with endurance, and mental strength is the value needed to push them to go one step ahead of their competition. Sportmen must be able to run, lift, or even row without issue, as well as try, try, and try again, working through limiting beliefs so that they can become apart of sporting history.