---
source: kaggle
---

Hobbies are recreational activities that are pursued away from one's school or work. They are meant to be an escape from the mundane and a way of keeping people sane and happy. Unfortunately, they have become almost a luxury in today's fast-paced world.
Several reasons can account for this massive decrease in the pursuit of hobbies. One such reason is the fact that hobbies require time and money which are two very dear resources in today's world. Social sophistication and technological advancements have brought about changes in hobbies. What used to be called hobbies in the past are now considered obsolete and the new ones, including video games and virtual reality require financial commitment in their pursuit. Even if one has the money to pursue such, he or she would have to set aside time in his or her busy schedule to enjoy those hobbies. It is therefore no wonder that most people found to pursue hobbies today are either wealthy youth or comfortable pensioners.
Secondly, lack of interest may be an important factor why people devote little to no time to hobbies. Most of the educated lot are taught from a tender age only to concentrate on their studies in order to secure a comfortable future for themselves. Such children are discouraged from enjoying anything away from anything extracurricular and therefore grow into hobby-less adults who work all day and do nothing else otherwise. This is seen in a lot of Ghanaian homes where doing anything other than studying after school is deemed a taboo. Consequently, many grow into adults with little humour or mirth.
Moreover, many people get exhausted with school or work, which have become extremely intensive nowadays, as compared to the more laid back past. After a tiring day, most people like to crawl into their beds to catch a night-long rest only to return to their busy life the next day.
This lack of hobby pursuit, though understandable, does the individual and society more harm than good. Many individuals today are being treated for one mental health or another. Hobbies are a good way to relax and destress through leisure and can go a long way to improve mental health. Its absence will only wreak havoc for the society, which will only consist of tired and apathetic individuals who could not care less about each other and their surroundings.
In conclusion, it is important, albeit difficult, to pay attention to hobbies in order to improve the health and psyche of the individual and society as a whole. More effort should be geared at encouraging hobbies at school and at the work place.