---
source: kaggle
---

In recent years, the advancement of cutting-edge technology has been elevating the quality of life of customers worldwide. However, the issue at hand is, some consumers face difficulties in choosing products from companies because there are surging numbers of advertisements from rival companies. This essay will examine the extent to where customers are impacted by advertisements and suggest viable methods to protect customers.
To begin with, I think that customers are significantly influenced by advertisements viewed to the highest extent because their emotional decision-making as buyers are affected. Although some consumers believe that watching a Mcdonald advertisement on tv does not neccesarily encourage them to purchase foods from Mcdonalds, continously watching Mcdonald advetisements in a repetitive manner will subconsciously revert the customer's attention to order foods from Mcdonalds when they are hungry during late nights. In 2016, a study from Harvard University by Professor Oak mentioned that 75% of consumers who view the same imageries of advertising will began implementing it as a part of their lives. As a result, they become obese. Another point worth mentioning is, rival companies will tend to create an illusion of trust towards their products. If a loyal Colgate customer, a toothpaste brand, was convinced by Oral B through advertisements, another toothpaste brand that their product was better, they will potentially choose Oral B and rely on it permanently despite the fact that they have more flaws in their product. Hence, the customers will become emotionally manipulated.
On the contrary, there are a number of profound methodology to prevent increasing numbers of advertisements from influencing customers. One of the most notable ones is, the government should limit the number of advertisements published. Although an advertising company may lose attention from customers due to lack of the marketing, many customers will be able to focus on lesser advertisements that wastes significantly less of their time. Therefore, they will be able to enjoy more time watching the movie or series that they love. Moreover, another important solution that the government should investigate advertisement products displayed online. For instance, in some countries, baby milk powder was replaced with dangerous chemicals that resulted in food poisoning in babies. This caused severe trauma to consumers that re mianly family members worldwide. By implementing stricter control towards advertisement products, customers will be able to reap the rewards of the best products and move on with their life. Yales University states that by enhancing the quality of advertising campaigns despite the rivalry betweem companies, customers will be able to protect themselves from manipulation from marketing schemes. Therefore, customers will be safe from misleading products.
In conclusion, while I believe that consumers are significantly influenced by advertisements viewed to the highest extent and create an illusion of trust towards their products, there are also viable measures to protect customers such as the government limiting the number of advertisements shown and investigating advertisement products displayed online.