---
source: kaggle
---

While many regard team sports such as football and basketball are the better choices for sport, there are still some stick on to the individual sports. To my point of view, I prefer individual sports over team sports as the latter is more harmful and less beneficial from both physical and mental perspective.
Firstly, I think sports played in groups tend to cause more harm in the forms of stress and injuries. To start, virtually all team sports are played as competitions: it must have a winnner and a loser, or losers. Since no one wish to be the stepstone of the champion, it causes a tremendous amount of stress on players' psyche. Also, many team sports inevitably requires phyiscal contacts of the players, the competitive nature of such sports often intensify the contact which some leads to injuries. Many famous sportsmen, like Jianlian Yi, one of the only two Chinese basketball players in NBA, were forced to retire early due to the injuries sustained during matches.
On the other hand, individual sports like swimming and joggling do not have such issues. Since one can swim or run alone, there is no such need to compete with others and cause stress. The removal of physical contact with other players also reduce the likelihood of sport injuries such as head-to-head collisions. Plus, one would focus more on how to self-improve on his/her phyiscal abilities. Moreover, some individual sports like joggling and hiking encourage people to explore mother nature. According to a study done by UBC in 2005, the higher exposure to the nature, one will have lesser likelihood to suffer mental disorders such as major depressions disorder (MDD) and general anxiety disorder (GAD).
In conclusion, I would say sports that played individually is has more benefits than team sports, from both the physical and mental point of views.