---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays, people hold different ideas about how to distribute students at schools. Some individuals argue that minors should be taught separately based on their academic performance, whereas others state that they ought to be educated together. This essay will discuss both viewpoints, although it is my opinion that it is better to allocate students together regardless of their capabilities.
Proponents of the idea of dividing children at different levels argue that the selection can better facilitate an efficient and productive learning environment for different students. More specifically, by doing so, schools can provide specific objectives to meet students’ needs as young people have distinctiveness in learning preferences, personalities, and interests. Therefore, through selecting and separating the youth into a range of classes based on their talents and intelligence, schools cannot only tailor a result-oriented syllabus to explore each student’s maximum potential but also improve the quality of education since excellent students can learn in a fast way without anyone being left behind. In contrast, ordinary students can still keep up with the majority with complete comprehension. Furthermore, this can also minimise the possible pressure that some academically challenged students suffer from the negative psychological impacts, considering their poor performance in the exams or assignments.
Others, however, who point out that mixed classes attach great importance to the contribution of healthy competition and collaboration, also make valid arguments. Despite the possible imbalance in each student’s academic performance in a class, superior peers can serve as a desirable role models to others. Their strengths, such as learning attitudes and methods, can enlighten the rest of the class to improve and study. In addition, the diversity in class can promote mutual study among children with different abilities and create a better environment for children’s all-rounded development. Since the way of streaming students has been proven effective and practical, this mode of teaching is highly advisable by educational experts, and there are still many schools following this norm to educate children rather than set them apart as many students who are not excellent at study may experience disappointment and a lack of confidence when compared to those straight-A students in separated classrooms.
In conclusion, although the teaching resources can be assigned more precisely to target youngsters’ gifts in the streaming, it is still too early and unfair at this stage. Therefore, I believe it is better to mix students with different levels of abilities in a dynamic and harmonious class, and undoubtedly, we should never discriminate unfairly against students who should be highly encouraged instead.