---
source: kaggle
---

It is proposed that elementary schools should teach their pupils vegetable growing and animal keeping skills. Although there are controversial views towards this proposal, I believe that its benefits outweigh its drawback for a range of reasons stated below.
On the one hand, experiences of vegetable growning and animals keeping can help children develop some first hand knowledge and some key characters that would benefit them in the long run. Firstly, by involving in the process of vegetables growing, children gain in-depth understanding of the nature and its impact on the development of a life cycle. In this case, they are capable of learning some practiacal knowledge regarding how weather and seasons could either foster or destruct the growth of plants. Secondly, keeping pets or other animals can encourage the deveopment of the pupils' responsibility. As they learn how to rountinely feed animals, and take showers for them, their responsbility and empathy also grow hand in hand, which would lay a solid foundation for their future study, family life and professional career.
On the other hand, it may be argued that taking such courses could distact students from their intensive study. It is not necessarily true because the aforementioned knwledge and skills can be transferble to their academic study and social life in schools. For example, their first hand experiences of growing vegetables can advance their understanding of some theoretical knowledge about plants in the bilogy class. The empathy deveoped through raising animlas could be also taken advantage to strengthen relationships with teachers and peers.
In conclusion, it is understandable that some people oppose the idea of the pupils learning vegetables growing and animals keeping, but I strongly think that its advantages outweigh the disadvantages.