---
source: kaggle
---

With the advent of the internet and later the video-call technology, life has dramatically changed, particularly in work circles as plenty of meetings have been held online rather than in offices and huge halls. In this essay, I will count the possible advantages as well as some disadvantages of such an invention and finally conclude wether or not it is really a cost-effective one.
Over the course of modern history, national and international conferrences have cost enormous funds in order to gather experts from all over the world. However, thanks to the available online communication platforms, present companies and foundations can hold meetings with famous and influencial persons more often and with less expense. Furthermore, nowadays, employees can spare the time spent on travelling between offices and premises, by having online meetings. Meetings are now recorded for documentation and any future purposes. For example, this technology has seemd to be critical on our life, specifcally since the outbreak of COVID19. If humans had not have this means of communication, there would have been more severe and devastating effects on businesses.
On the other hand, there is another aspect which merits further consideration. Unfortunately, techincal network problems could still happen and cause inevitable cancellations. Moreover, meeting other colleagues merely on screens would have a detrimental social impact in workplaces. Without face-to-face interaction peers have less chance to build strong and deep relationships, which in turn might weaken co-opeartion and cohesion in any work environment.
To recapitulate, as we weigh up the pros and cons of this recent innovation, I strongly believe that the prominent advantages outweigh the few disadvantages that I mentioned above. Still, precautions should be taken to identify the possible drawbacks in order to offset their converse effects on many workplaces.