---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays, it is widely believed that education has become an important aspect of our lives, especially for primary children, which have to be well educated before achieving the period of adolescence. Furthermore, I hold on firmly to the belief that, children should learn how to respect the environment, especially the agriculture such as vegetables and the wildlife as animals.
To begin with, children should learn how to cultivate and grow vegetables, in order to respect the environment. In other words, children may experience some extra activities related to plants cultivation during or after school. For instance, educational institutions could organise some apprenticeship activities and teach how to cultivate and grow vegetables. In addition to this, it often claimed that taking part in these types of activities may develop children's skills and acquiring leadership skills. Moreover, young students could experience different types of cultivation, in order to gain knowledge of agriculture sector. Therefore, these may be useful for children's career prospects and for their future.
Secondly, another vital aspect of our world that should be considered is the wildlife, especially there some animals endangered. In other words, animals have become significant for the world's ecosystems and useful for companionship. For example, it is generally agreed that children may have to learn how to maintain animals. Additionally, children could experience activities in animals protection associations, in order to learn how to keep and protect animals with the support of some volunteers. As a result, children when they grow up are aware to the fact that animals are important and have to be always appreciated and respected.
In conclusion, as far as I'm concerned, the advantages of learning how to cultivate vegetables and keep animals definitely outweigh the drawbacks. Additionally, there is no doubt that children doing these activities may gain many positive experiences, develop their skills and learn how value and appreciate the environment including wildlife.