---
source: kaggle
---

Two centuries ago, when people celebrated the evolutionary development brought by industrialization, no one would ever anticipate that a profound change of global climate would be caused by the “machines” humans had made. However, many ecologists point out that human activities have put a massive burden on the ecosystem, which leads to increasingly higher global temperatures. This essay will explain the major causes of global climate change, followed by several plausible solutions.
It has been widely recognized that excessive greenhouse gas emissions are the culprit of global climate change, and burning fossil fuels and consuming oil are the leading causes of greenhouse gas emissions. First, our daily life in a modern society heavily relies on electricity, acquired mainly through burning fossil fuels like coal. A colossal amount of smoke, predominantly carbon dioxide, is released during this process. As a result, the smoke captures excessive heat on the Earth, resulting in an increase in global temperatures. Second, consuming oil impacts global temperatures in the same way. As the energy from burning fossil fuels cannot meet the rapidly growing needs, more and more oil extraction programs are set up to acquire petroleum. The process of both drilling oil and consuming it creates a significant amount of greenhouse gases. Thus, burning fossil fuels and consuming oil are significant causes of climate change.
However, although lowering greenhouse gas emissions is challenging, several actions could decelerate the effect. One major step is to urge the energy-dependent companies to reduce productivity and create more jobs in green industries. Like large cloth manufacturers, giant companies need a significant portion of energy to keep their machines running every day. By reducing productivity, the amount of energy they need can drop. At the same time, the government should increase investment in green industries to maintain a healthy employment rate. On the other hand, individuals can make their own contribution by reducing their personal carbon footprints. Every small step, such as turning off the lights when leaving home, taking public transportations instead of driving cars, or simply eating less meat, can make big changes.
In conclusion, the excessive greenhouse gas emissions released mainly by burning fossil fuels and consuming oil have caused an alarming increase in global temperatures. Nevertheless, this problem could be alleviated by a collective effort of giant companies and individuals.