---
source: kaggle
---

Over the past decades, it has been registered a considerable decrease in the percentage of people eager to create a family at a young age. There could be different reasons for this and I am going to state them clearly in the following paragraphs, which will also explain why I believe the advantages of this situation far outweigh the disadvantages.
Apparently, the society we currently live in has undergone substantial changes over the years, sometimes without us even noticing it. The most evident of these variations has probably been the gradual rise in the number of old people as opposed to the dramatic fall in the number of births. In fact, owing to the decline of the economy of most nations and the subsequent reduction of work opportunities, more and more people are giving up on the idea of becoming parents in their 20s or 30s. Many people see this as a negative aspect for our society; however, I have to strongly disagree with their opinion.
The drawbacks to which a lot of people point out when discussing about these kind of topics often has to do with the age gap between parents and their children. Admittedly, someone cannot decide to have a child in their 40s without considering the significant generation gap that would separate them from their kids and, as a result, the issues of miscommunication that could arise.
However, the disadvantages become of secondary importance as soon as the much more remarkable benefits are examined. First of all, older parents also means more responsible and mature caretakers; consequently, due to their broader life experience, they would arguably make better advisors for their kids. Not to mention that older parents would not only have more stable and secure jobs, but they would also have more consistent savings to devote to their children's further education, which in turn could help the latter having a better and well-paid job in the future.
To conclude, although it's impossible not to take into account the drawbacks of having a child at a more advanced age, the advantages still outrun the disadvantages. Thus, children would be the first to benefit from such a situation.