---
source: kaggle
---

International sporting events are well-known for attracting a high level of attention because they give many people something to look forward to. Understandably, there are advantages and disadvantages for the host country, and careful consideration is required to determine whether a nation will benefit or lose from hosting a major sports championship.Worryingly, the new infrastructure required for hosting a major sporting event often comes at the expense of local people. Their lives get disrupted by construction works and at times residents have even been evicted from their homes for stadiums to be built. Worse still, practice shows the expensive, gigantic buildings constructed for the sports event aren’t being used afterwards and fall into disrepair, leaving the country with high maintenance bills. The financial burden from hosting the Olympic Games, for example, is staggering and can run into tens of billions. Still, the question remains whether or not the pros outnumber the cons.It is hard to underestimate the amount of influence on the country’s global status and prestige that comes with becoming a home to an international sporting event. New trade opportunities appear on the horizon, as it happened for many countries that hosted the Olympic Games. There is also a welcome increase in tourism, which gives the local economy a boost, injecting billions of dollars into the national budget. Construction of new stadiums, hotels and infrastructure such as new roads and rail links creates new jobs, further improving the country’s economy. Less tangible but still important is the aspect of national pride and the feel-good factor associated with hosting an international sports event.All in all, it seems to me that an international sporting event can bring more good than harm to a country, especially if its potential dangers can be avoided or minimised. Hosting a World Championship is a one-in-a-lifetime opportunity for a country and an immense source of pride for its citizens.