---
source: kaggle
---

Competitiveness is a desirable quality for individuals. This essay will analyse the effects of competitiveness on people and illuminate my view as to whether the eagerness of competition represents an auspicious or ominous tendency.
There are mainly two types of influence exerted by competitiveness on people. The most prominent repercussion resides in that the desire of competition drives people to work or study more diligently in order to stand out from the rest and achieve success. Such diligence enables people to accumulate sufficient experience that helps them improve capabilities and obtain better results. Apart from that, another important effect of competitiveness is that competitors may seek considerable pleasure in competition, especially when defeating competent rivals and obtaining hard-earned victories. Such success makes people realise how excellent they are and gives them tremendous satisfaction. Even if losing the competition, people may still be satisfied with such a precious opportunity that helps them understand their disadvantages and thus, encourages them to work harder.
As far as I am concerned, I opine that competitiveness is a positive phenomenon, because it not only helps people become industrious learners or workers with sufficient experience and great potential of making progress, but also makes their daily lives more enjoyable as beating strong opponents may give them a unique sense of satisfaction. Therefore, I think that the importance of competitiveness should never be underestimated.
To sum up, the effects of competitiveness can be manifested by the impetus driving people to work or study harder, and the unique pleasure of competing against strong rivals. Personally, I hold that this is an auspicious trend.