---
source: kaggle
---

It is true that gender equality has achieved significant advancements nowadays compared to society in the past, and women have no doubt obtained more opportunities to get engaged in the leading role on many occasions. With regard to many success stories about female leadership, there is a common statement that women are more suited to be leaders. In my opinion, leadership depends more on ability rather than gender.
There are several reasons why some people may consider females as the better choice to occupy the leading position. Firstly, female leadership is a relatively new trend in recent decades with the development of society and therefore has been put under the highlight. In the past, men were always seen as the superior gender to run the company and dominate the realm. At the same time, women were seldom taken into account to be qualified to do management, and in many cases, they were merely not eligible for leadership. Hence, the opportunity and success of female leadership nowadays are highly emphasized and kept firmly in people’s minds, which probably leads to the imagination that women can better lead. Secondly, the statement can sometimes be regarded as propaganda for gender equality. In order to improve public awareness of the female role in leadership and create more chances for women to partake in leading, it is surely an excellent idea to set a good image of female leadership by advocating their merits. However, the decisive factors to successful leadership, which include capacities like communication, personal charisma, and intelligence, should not be misinformed.
Despite the argument given above, I also believe that it is urgent to replace the stereotype of gender among the public, which contributes to the distinct impression of each gender about leadership. The male characteristics were traditionally defined as braveness, intelligence, and dominance, which match the requirement of leadership a lot. It is no doubt that women can be brave and able to take risks and responsibility in the leading position as well. A prime example can be female chancellor Merkel of Germany, who led the German government for more than 16 years and enjoyed a well-known reputation worldwide. Her political legend reflects the fact that the extraordinary competence of leadership does not exclusively belong to males.
In conclusion, although I completely agree that gender equality is of unparalleled importance. However, the key to successful leadership should never be related to gender.