---
source: kaggle
---

As we all know, recruitment is a continuous process that has been evolving over the past years. Nowadays, selection of qualified applicants is a tedious job which involves a considerable amount of time and effort. It has been stated that wealthy countries must allow experienced and intelligent employees from impoverished countries to secure a job in an affluent nation. I completely agree with this statement. In this essay, reasons and examples will be discussed further.
Recruitment mainly involves identification of potential applicants, screening, interviewing and hiring candidates for a particular organization. It may seem a daunting task for those working in human resources. With the advent of technology, the process is simplified, faster and more convenient. Mostly, email is used for applying and sending the credentials abroad, chances of getting hired is often possible. For instance, many immigrants from Asia, which belongs to developing countries are able to successfully obtain an employment in North America with the help of social media platforms. Also, with their valuable experience and rewarding career in the past, they were able to practice their profession in newly industralized countries.
It is beneficial for them to accept skilled workers from economically poor countries to fill in the vacancies in labor market. For instance, a highly respected nurse who earned her bachelor's degree back home decided to work overseas as a healthcare aide eventhough she's overqualified for the position while waiting for her credential evaluation and license. This scenario depicts that rich countries benefit and utilize this person's ability to contribute significantly in the economy.
In addition, job recruitment is advantageous for the country since talents and skills of the people from developing countries has been internationally recognized, thereby giving a sense of pride and honor. Moreover, hiring of people overseas should be a fair procedure that takes into consideration the most indispensable requirement which is skills and knowledge, not merely based on the worker's country of origin. However, there are also drawbacks associated from recruitment of foreign workers which include increasing costs, loss of cultural ties and conflict of interest.
From my perspective, I am in favor of hiring people from third world countries since majority of these people has the expertise, achievements and excellent communication skills which are desirable attributes of an employee. With enough manpower, it will address the staffing crisis and labor shortage in rich countries.