---
source: kaggle
---

For years, space has fascinated humans. The idea that there could be life on other planets, as well as the challenge of exploring as much of the universe as possible, has been one that has excited everyone from top physicists, to the youngest child playing with her space ship toys. But is the money spent on exploration of the universe justified or should it rather be allocated to helping those on this planet? I believe that space exploration is justified. In this essay, the motivation for space exploration will be explored.
Planet Earth is ill. Humans have polluted the planet and destroying natural resources. Some might argue that the damage is irreparable. Global warming is causing the Earth's temperature to steadily rise. There is a possibility that in the next few centuries, the planet may become inhabitable. Scientists like Elon Musk have recognised the dire situation that the Earth is in, and have started looking for an alternative new home planet. It is possible that in the coming years, there will be no other option than to move to a planet like Mars. Therefore, the costs involved in exploring this planet are justified, if it is to house the entire human race.
Space exploration also allows for new discoveries. New minerals or compounds could be discovered on distant planets. These could possibly be used on Earth in various new technologies, or even in medical science to treat illness or disease. This could be invaluable to humankind.
Since the dawn of the human race, a characteristic that separates us from our animal relatives, is our ability to tinker with existing knowledge, as well as learn new things. It has lead to humans becoming the dominant force on the planet. New ideas prevent us from becoming stagnant, thus driving progress. If we continue to learn new things from space exploration, we prevent stagnation.
Lastly, the idea that there could be life on other planets is one that has merit, in my opinion. Humans cannot be so arrogant to think that there is no other life in the universe.
In conclusion, it can be argued that space exploration does not hold merit and should be discontinued. But the benefits that it offers outweigh the shortcomings.