---
source: kaggle
---

Over decades, there has been a belief that adults should support adolescents to work in a company or travel to another country at least one year before going to university. Despite the fact that there are many positive aspects of having experiences in terms of working and travelling before studying at university, with a careful consideration, there are also negative points of this.
It is true that working or travelling before starting a university program positively affects juveniles’ development. A classic example of this is an effective way to truly understand their academic preferences. When juveniles have work experiences, such as having a one-year internship in a company, they tend to learn a wide variety of work functions, helping them know the academic discipline they want to learn at university. Another benefit from taking a long journey to another place before studying at university is the opportunity to get exposed to new culture. This is because while adolescents are on an epic expedition to other parts of the world, they tend to meet new people with different nationality and belief, leading to valuable life experiences that they cannot receive from a professor at university.
In spite of the aforementioned advantages of working or travelling before starting university courses, there are also drawbacks. A common example of this is graduating from a college late, compared to juveniles who immediately start a university program after they finish high school. This is exemplified by Thai culture which believes that young people who graduate from university later than their peer would not have a successful career path. In addition, opponents of this notion might argue that working before finishing university is not well worth doing. Since most works require a strong academic foundation in order for juveniles to deliver results with fewer mistakes, the juveniles should study at university instead.
In conclusion, it is undeniable that having work experiences or taking a journey before starting a university life has many benefits for young people with respect to knowing the academic fields they want to study and learning new cultures outside a classroom. Nevertheless, doing this could also have drawbacks in terms of the delay in university graduation and an ineffective performance in working.