---
source: kaggle
---

Couples living together before their weddings was once deemed as a disgrace. However, as our society keeps developing, more and more people start to accept the idea of cohabitation and put it into action. Admittedly, cohabitation can be advantageous. However, I do believe that people need to exercise caution when making the decision of living together with a partner.
It is true that living together with one's partner is a great opportunity for couples to know their partners as well as life after marriage better. Lovers tend to love each other so much that they can easily miss some tiny but crucial details or habits of their significant other. Cohabitation makes these details and habits unavoidable since two people are basically seeing each other for hours on a daily basis. Cohabitation can also be a buffer to help young couples move into a new stage in their lives. However, despite the fact that people are expected to completely understand their husband or wife-to-be as well as marriage itself, it is not guaranteed that they will still make the decision to marry that person after cohabitation.
Some people find it difficult or even dangerous to put the idea of cohabitation into implementation. Lovers in a long-distance relationship, for example, usually reside in different cities and can only see each other once in a while. In such situations, cohabitation means that one person must give up his or her career. This seems to be unfair and may lead to unnecessary breakups. Another instance is that some people can use cohabitation to, financially or sexually, take advantage of other people.
All in all, many advantages can be attributed to cohabitation, but I still think that people need to be cautious before moving in with a partner.