---
source: kaggle
---

Over the recent decades there has been a noticeable increase in the number of the private cars travelling both inside and outside the cities. This in turn has entailed various repercussions on people's lives. In this essay I will be trying to address a few pitfalls that might be resulted from the rising dependence on cars, and then I will try to consolidate some available solutions.
With the recent development in the car industry, private cars have been quite affordable products for a large portion of the society. Therefore, most of the people have started to travel by their own cars toward their destinations. This increase in vehicles traveling in the streets has alarmingly caused many traffic jams, and these in turn have costed the national economics enormous lost work hours. Moreover, the extent of the air pollution has been widened as a result of the increasing toxic materials emitted into the air. In addition, number of traffic accidents apparently has seen an expected surge, since it has a proportional relation to cars quantities travelling within the cities.
In order to minimize the problems mentioned above, a few solutions can be offered. First, governments should pour more money into developing the public transportation infrastructures, which might encourage employees to forgo their private cars and alternatively take the bus or train. Other notion which merits consideration, employers should intervene and organize group transits for transferring workers from and to their homes. In tourism circles, if there had been more focus on group packages, many tourists would have preferred to leave their cars at home.
In conclusion, I truly am of the opinion, that governments should take significant actions in order to decrease the use of private cars within their countries, in order to solve some of the inevitable problems resulted from the over-reliance on cars.