---
source: kaggle
---

Packing of goods has become a noticeable issue nowadays, especially in terms of environmental concerns and sustainable development of society. In order to reduce the amount of packaging, some people believe that manufacturers and supermarkets are more responsible for taking measures, while others insist that customers play a more critical role in reality. In my view, the effort needs to be made by the supplier and the consumer both to guarantee the achievement of the goal.
On the one hand, the problem of over-packaging is often caused by commercial strategy. The supplier attempts to use beautiful packaging to make their products more attractive to customers. It is fairly easy to imagine that people would be more likely to choose a product decorated gorgeously than the same one with a plain appearance provided that there is thus no significant increase in price. Following that, producers would try to make every effort to obtain more competitive packaging for their products, which probably leads to excessive use of the wrap. Therefore, it is undoubtedly the duty of the producer to partake in reducing the amount of over-packaging by finding another way to improve the competitiveness of their products instead of merely attaching more value to their appearance.
On the other hand, the behaviors of customers give rise to over-packaging as well. The more attention that people will pay to the appearance of goods, the more encouraged producers will be to exert themselves on wrapping. Moreover, the public awareness about the harmful influence of over-packaging is also profound in decreasing the amount of packaging. As customers take the problems caused by over-packaging into account, they would be more willing to purchase the goods with less packaging, which is a highly practical way to prevent producers from wrapping unduly.
In conclusion, it is clear that suppliers and customers both are responsible for the trend of over-packaging. Therefore, the success of altering the situation needs the participation of them both.