---
source: kaggle
---

Education is one of the most important topics for childhood development, and music can be very beneficial to children because it helps to sustain creative thinking and improve imagination. Some educators demand that music should be taught as a mandatory subject, and yet some others think that forcing children to play music instruments will limit their chances to discover and develop other talents.
Indeed, music can be a great source for improving the lives of many children as well as their learning experience. Learning music instruments requires patience, creativity and good discipline. Inherently, in order to master a music instrument, a good musician needs to sharpen his preserverence and offer all his best, for a great performance often demands ten or more years of practice. The heart of a musician, the pursuation of perfection and persistence are all good qualities for a child to learn throughout his life in pursuing his career, not only the career in music.
However, despite all the good qualities that can be obtained through playing music instruments, childhood education can be misdirected if the development of a hobbie becomes "mandatory", which, of ocurse, includes music instruments. It might be beneficial for a child to experiment music instruments in his early years, but not every child has the potential of being a professional musician. Making music a mandatory subject for primary and secondary school students could minimize their opportunities to discover different hobbies. Moreover, making a bobbie a mandatory subject may also hinder the other learning experiences of a young child. Just imagine how stressful it is to study an unecessary subject on top of regular courses and other homework. It does more harms than goods to the overall learning experience.
In conclusion, it might be beneficial for a child to learn music instruments in his first school years, but if he does not have the talent and does not enjoy music, educators should consider dropping such suggestion and let him discover other hobbies.