---
source: kaggle
---

People have always desired to improve their external features. However, while the time went by, methods of changing appearance for the better have significantly changed. Today, more and more people decide to improve the way they look via cosmetic surgery. In the following essay I'm going to speculate on the topic and explain some possible reasons of this trend.
Obviously, there are plenty of reasons of this tendancy. To start with, operation is an easy way of improving your appearance. People are attracted by this method because they don't need to go to the gym or control their diet anymore. The only thing they need is to call a special doctor and pay money. In addition, it's obvious that every trend is caused by the changes of standarts in society. Nowadays, the number of people who are sure that unnatural beauty is attractive is growing every day. Affected by the opinion of their friends or family members more and more women decide to use surgery in order to change face or other part of the body.
Personally, I strongly believe that this bandwagon both worsens the way people look harms health as well. I'm convinced that nothing can surpass natural beauty; meanwhile, every medical operation goes against people's organism and spills what was created by the universe. For example, some famous artists who have used cosmetic surgery in order to stay young are now looking like dolls. What's more, sometimes chemicals which are used during such operations can cause awful consequences for not only people's appearance, but for their health as well. I can still remember a story of one boy who wanted to swell his muscles in a shorter way by using some medecine but, as a result, he appeard in a hospital with serious blood illness due to inappropriate choice and careless usage.
Taking everything into account, it's my firm conviction that even though cosmetic surgery seems to be a proper way of improving appearance, it is very overrated. On the contrary, such operations do not only worsen the way people look , but can be extremely dangeraus for their organism as well, while natural beauty is here to stay forever.