---
source: kaggle
---

There is currently a contentious argument that using English as an international language will always have more benefits than drawbacks. Despite the use of English, which has been spreading globally, has positive effects on communication in various aspects, I personally believe that the disadvantages of the spread of English will eventually be more significant.
It is true that when more and more countries use English as a common language, the advantages of this implementation will outweigh its negative consequences. A classic example of this is that people from any country could communicate to each other in the easier way. This is because there will be no language barrier, preventing people to deliver their messages to others. Furthermore, using English globally tend to have less misunderstanding when communicating. This is exemplified by natives who live in the same country and speak the same language. These people can understand what each other say completely. Therefore, in terms of global perspective, if everyone has conversations in English, misleading communication tend to be less occurred.
In spite of the aforementioned positive consequences of the growing use of English, there are also potential drawbacks. A common example of this is the missing of some languages. Languages which are only used by small groups of people tend to fade away due to the fact that the majority of people would pay more attention to English without conserving these languages. In addition, nations that do not apply English as an international language tend to have small global economic growth. This is because most countries in international markets can understand English. Hence, countries whose people are unable to apply English could inevitably have less opportunities to make commercial deals with other countries, having the ability to speak English.
In conclusion, it is undeniable that the spread of English positively affects the way people from different countries communicate to each other and significantly decreases inaccurate information in conversations. Nevertheless, as this development can lead to the lost in other languages and the declining economy of some countries, I totally disagree with the notion that the advantages of the increasing popularity of English will continue to outweigh the disadvantages. This is because I personally think that the aforementioned negative impacts are the two most crucial aspects when using English.