---
source: kaggle
---

In today's era, most students look forward to enrolling in professional courses at universities. However, some believe that authorities should encourage teenagers to take vocational courses as there is a huge shortage of professionals like electricians and plumbers. In my opinion, while there is a scarcity of such workers and the government should make special arrangements for prospective learners, certain other factors should also be considered.
Due to the insufficient work possibilities after completing vocational courses and extremely low wages, scholars are forced to take loans at high interest from banks to attend university programmes. An average adult has to pay more than 70,000 USD yearly for a typical professional course at a university, and most children are unable to accumulate sufficient funds in time, which forces them to borrow this amount from banks. The job market for plumbing and electrical work is highly unregulated, which leads to the exploitation of such workers by the established brands, further distressing the people. Some regulations should be established for these markets to decrease the risk factor for workers.
On the other hand, due to the continuing increase in our population, the demand for doctors, engineers, and professors is also rising. In recent years, governments from all over the world have reported the widening gap between the number of professionals available per 1000 people. For example, in India, there is only 1 doctor available per 50 people in urban areas, and the number is even more concerning in rural areas, where the figure of patients climbs even further.
In my opinion, authorities and universities should work together towards introducing scholarships and other benefits not only for learners of professional courses but also for peoples of vocational courses. Furthermore, better and more wages for plumbers and electricians could also be established to attract more students.
In conclusion, favourable policies should be implemented for qualified workers to attract more potential learners by the government, as well as lower tution fees for university attendees.