---
source: kaggle
---

Space exploration has no longer been a si-fi fantasy since human-beings placed their first steps on the moon in 1950s. However, rapid evolution of technologies and the fast consumption of natural resources are also major concerns for many scientists in today's world. Some people believe that more money spent on space exploration is inevitable for fulfulling the demands of scientific discovery and the future development of human technologies; however, many others argue that this money should be invested in other more useful places where more human lives can be improved.
Space exploration has always been a fascinating topic over the recent years. Scientists have long been searching for possible ways to contact the unknown lives outside this planet and unwrap the secrets of the universe such as the black holes and the birth of the space. The more advanced human-technologies become, the further an austronaut can travel to. Scientists believe that space discoveries can help human beings to develop new technologies and find new resources outside our solar system. However, the evolutions of technologies and equipments always require huge investments.
In fact, space exploration can be both benefitial and time-consuming. If such a scientific project is carried and supervised by a rich nation, greater success can be seen. However, there are many other pre-existing problems on the other side of this planet that require attention and aids, such as hunger and proverty. In this case, I think these issues should be prioritized because every human life is precious. If those people's lives are taken care off, there should be less worries on scientific research as well.
In conclusion, space exploration can be benefitial for the evolution of human technologies and possible findings of new resources. However, they should be done after fulfilling the basic needs other people on the other side of this planet.