---
source: kaggle
---

Many people believe that the most effective way to teach children cooperation in teamwork is by encouraging them to join team sports at school. I completely agree with this idea and will give my reasons as follows.
Firstly, team sports require children to work together and practice communication in order to achieve a common goal. For example, in Taiwan, many schools have baseball lessons in sports courses, and some schools even have a school baseball team. In such courses, children can learn to trust one another and develop communication skills by playing. Furthermore, they can develop mutual understanding and compromise with their teammates in order to reach a common goal. In this way, they can develop their social skills, find a way to cooperate, and build positive relationships with their peers. As a result, team sports experiences will contribute to their social skills and social life as well.
Secondly, team sports can teach children the value of perseverance and resilience. Through the experience of competing with other teams, children can learn to accept the ups and downs of success and defeat and go through any difficult situations with their teammates. This is especially the case if they fail in a competition as they can learn to encourage each other and develop a sense of group belonging. For instance, we can see many touching stories in team competitions where despite being on the losing side at the beginning, the team rallies, and members encourage each other to restart. This can be a great lesson for children to build their resilience, self-confidence, and a sense of belonging, as well as develop a positive attitude toward their life in the future.
In conclusion, I believe that team sports provide children with opportunities to develop their social skills, increase their confidence and resilience, and ultimately benefit their whole life. Therefore, they should be included in the school curriculum for children.