---
source: kaggle
---

Social media today is extremely significant to a majority of the population, especially the younger generation. Many teenagers find it exceptionally convenient and necessary for communication and entertainment. However, not everyone is able to use social media responsibly, which gave rise to the idea of making it accessible to only those older than eighteen years of age.Though there are negatives, such as cyber-bullying, or being too distracted by these modern media, there are issues surrounding most things in life. It is a choice to go onto a social media website, and many younger people are capable of managing accounts without any difficulties. It is not the government’s responsibility to monitor under eighteen-year olds; that is for the parents.Statistics show that over eighty per cent of teens use a form of online social media. It allows them to chat online, easily stay in contact with friends and family across the world, and see updates on others’ lives (through text, photos or videos). Social media is a way to express thoughts or ideas and to stay in contact with the rest of the world.To not permit one of the largest Internet-using demographics to use social media because a few people have problems with it is an irrational and an unfair restriction. Not only would profit be lost with fewer users, but controlling who creates accounts and monitoring proof of age would be difficult as well. I believe that laws should not make social media inaccessible to young people under eighteen; this would be unnecessary and absurd.