---
source: kaggle
---

There are many ways to learn new knowledge and skills. Traditional educational routes, such as school followed by college or university is one route that is generally accepted and respected by today’s society. It can be argued, however, that this is not always the best way. A more vocational route can be more appropriate for certain people and for particular jobs.Universities generally have deference given to them and, due to this, most schools tailor their programs to help students get university admission. Universities usually have respected and highly qualified teachers who have the knowledge and the skills to take their students to very high levels of knowledge and expertise. The very difficulty of gaining admission, getting through the duration of the course and passing final exams ensures to employers that graduates have the necessary self-discipline, intelligence and ability to get through the courses.Universities are also particularly well suited to the teaching of various subjects, for example, medicine, law and literature and these subjects need students’ full-time attention in order to do well. Although vocational experience is necessary, a certain grounding in basic concepts to a high-level is important. Once this knowledge has been acquired, students can then integrate their knowledge with practical understanding.This, however, is not the case for all areas of learning, especially ones where the quantity of high level knowledge is not required or is possible to be learned whilst working at the same time. Young people studying to be an electrician or a plumber are good examples. To do this work well requires a lot of experience, yet also a sound understanding of theory. The learning here can be and is done working and studying at the same time, often through apprenticeships and vocational courses involving significant amounts of work experience.Therefore, in my opinion, there are more ways than one to acquire a profession. Whether learning should take place at university alone or whilst working depends on the course and the end job.