---
source: kaggle
---

It is undoubtedly the case that the world has become a global village nowadays. Cooperations between different countries exist almost on every occasion. As a result, there are inevitably large amounts of information that are exchanged and shared for various usages. However, access to information has remained to be one of the most debatable issues. Some people believe that information should be shared without restriction, while others insist that the foremost information shouldn’t be exchanged for free. In my view, appropriate measures or costs can be taken to protect valuable information from being abused or stolen.
It is fairly easy to understand the view of people who are in favor of exchanging information as much as possible. To improve the quality of research or guarantee the success of cooperation, it is usually necessary to share resources and exchange minds with each other. Furthermore, the amount of shared information is often decisive to the time and result, which sometimes might be eagerly expected. For example, it is almost unimaginable that the vaccine of covid 19 was so quickly created without intensive international cooperation, which contains an enormous sum of shared knowledge and experience in the diverse field, from governments to universities. With the benefit of this sharing, the period of the vaccine, which can take more than ten years in the past, was immensely shortened this time and the quality of the vaccine is also prestigious over the world.
Nevertheless, the over-sharing of information could also be harmful and risky. There is every possibility that information of importance and value can be misused and eventually leads to severe problems if the intention of usage can’t be proven as legal and righteous or the risk of information leakage exists through sharing. For example, if classified military information is hacked by terrorists while the governments of two countries are sharing and discussing their military intelligence, it will result in a horrible disaster that treats all the citizens. Therefore, it is necessary to take measures to protect the safety of sensitive information from unauthorized access.
To sum up, sharing information is certainly helpful and meaningful in improving a wide variety of cooperation. However, it is also urgent to pay attention to the sharing of sensitive information in order to guarantee its safety.