---
source: kaggle
---

Information is presented by two graphs which depict the monthly average daily temperature and the monthly average number of raining days in two particular cities in Australia.
Overall, it can be clearly seen that the average daily temperature in Brisbane is higher than that in Canberra over the survey period. In addition, while Brisbane experiences a wide variety of changes in the average number of raining days, the figure for days with rainfall in Canberra remains unchanged approximately.
Turning to the first main feature in the line graph, in February Brisbane reached the highest average maximum temperature of an exact 30 degrees Celsius, whereas the average maximum temperature in Canberra is about 3 degrees Celsius less than that in Brisbane. The average maximum temperature in Brisbane then falls noticeably and levels off at around just above 20 degrees Celsius until July. On the other hand, the figure for the average maximum temperature in Canberra decreases substantially to a little more than 10 degrees Celsius which is the lowest point. By December, the average maximum temperature in both Brisbane and Canberra rises considerably to just below 30 and about 27 degrees Celsius respectively.
With respect to the average minimum temperature, there is a temperature fluctuation in both cities throughout the year. In January, the average minimum temperature in Brisbane and Canberra is just above 20 and about 13 degrees Celsius respectively. The figure for the average minimum temperature then drops remarkably to the lowest point of 10 degrees Celsius in Brisbane and nearly zero in Canberra in July. By the end of the period, the temperature bounce back to almost the same level as in January.
Turning to the key feature in the line graph, Brisbane reached the highest average number of raining days of a precise 14 days in February which maintains the same level until March. Then the average number of raining days in Brisbane drops substantially and levels off at approximately 7 days which is the lowest number, before rising to 12 days in December. On the contrary, Canberra experiences a period of stability at roughly 7 days. Nevertheless, the average number of raining days in Canberra jump suddenly to an exact 10 days between June and August, exceeding the figure for Canberra before dropping to about 7 days by the end of the period.