---
source: kaggle
---

Never has the topic concerning citizens’ health failed to attract people’s attention. However, when it comes to whether living in a metropolis would do bad to people’s health, individuals hold different views. As far as I am concerned, it does diminish individuals’ health conditions.
Undoubtedly, living in a metropolis has some benefits for the inhabitants’ health. A big city is more likely to provide individuals with high level medical services which can be helpful when people are afflicted with various diseases. Precisely, there are numerous community clinics as well as large hospitals where individuals can get access to offering people the most advanced medical technology and medicines. Thus, greater recovering possibilities are provided by big cities for sick people.
However, urban life can also be unhealthy due to numerous reasons. Firstly, individuals tend to suffer from greater mental stress in a metropolis. Specifically, the increasingly higher housing price contributes to the heavy financial burdens of individuals. People are compelled to struggle with high-intensity works due to the high cost in housing, which would cause a high mental pressure. Besides, one of the reasons for individuals’ mental pressure can be the indifferent relationship among urban inhabitants which is caused by the lack of a sense of community.
Furthermore, the poor air condition which is caused by the remorseless rush of pollution in big cities does do harm to citizens’ health conditions. For instance, the waste gas that discharged by the cars in the streets and the factories is polluting the air in urban areas, leading to a higher rate in diseases. As a result, citizens’ health conditions can be diminished physically.
In conclusion, although a metropolis can provide advanced medical services to urban inhabitants, living in big cities can also be hazardous to individuals’ mental heath and body health due to numerous factors. In my opinion, living in a metropolis is more likely to undermine people’s health.