---
source: kaggle
---

International sports events are one of the most trendy interactions at any hosting country. Depending on the hoster, the events could represent a virtue or a slip. This dependence is associated with the costs, logisitcs, marketing, etc. I tend to be of the opinion, that the virtues outweigh the disadvantages and that they shall be considered as opportunities to exploit.
Some people think of the international sport events as being disadvantageous, because for example of being a pressure on the countries' infrastructure as well as the provided services and facilities. Another reason might emerge as some countries also might not be well-suited for such events. For instance, despite spending a big budget on the organisation of the event, the lack of qualified personnel or needed objects and materials shall cause a massive distruction of the hostees' experiences.
The other perpective of the usages and utilization of such events could be clear through the massive amount of virtues, which these events normally brings to the hosting countries. For example, these events are regularly sponsored from international organisation, which provide the financial means not for only the logisitcs of the events, but additionally fees for the hosters. Furthermore, the financial benefits shall not stop by the provided fees through the owning organisation, but also the global or regional branding of such country will affect the tourism and the local service providers absolutely positive.
Concluding, international sport events could be absolutely virtous, if the hosting countries were to implement their strategies successfully. Should such countries be willing to give the event the raw focus on the organisation and the user-experience, that would absolutely lead to massive benefits financially, marketing-wise and from intercultural perspective.