---
source: kaggle
---

The experiences a child goes through during different stages of life defines his personality and have great impact on his future. Some people argue that those experiences which a child faces before entering into school has more effect, whereas others believe that teenhood has profound influence on a child's future life. This essay will discuss in detail both the views and explain why i believe that both early childhood and teenage experiences decide what future holds for the child.
Those people, who are in opinion that experiences in early childhood before the start of school has impact on future life, give several reasons. They believe that whatever a child faces at home helps in shaping his personality. For example, abusive childhood greatly has long lasting effect on their lives. It has been studied that those children who are victims of child abuse are more likely to become criminals. Some of them can never return towards normal life. Moreover, parents by their care and love can raise a child with a bright future. These children know the world from the perspective of their parents and it helps them to become a well-mannered and cultured human being with specific life goals, such as getting higher education or finding a job. In short, early childhood has its far reaching effects on a child.
On the other hand, people, who think that teenage experiences , especially at school, have more impact on determining the future of the person, have their own reasons to support their argument. Firstly, it is the phase of life where hormonal changes are taking place and they are experiencing body changes both mentally and physically; therefore, those who can have control on their emotions during this phase can develop as a strong individual. Secondly, it is the phase where most of the teenagers start taking decisions about their future study choices and any study experience at school help them in making these decisions. Such resolutions in teenage can have impact on their future practical lives. Finally, those youngsters, who are bullied during their teenhood at school, can suffer from personality disorder later in their lives which can have detrimental affect on their future. Surely, these experiences in teenage can affect a child's future.
To conclude, i believe that both pre-school childhood and teenage experiences help shape the future of a person. It is the experiences in both of these phases of lives which influence a child's future.