---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays, smoking has become very common in many individuals. Although governments have been trying to prevent people from smoking by displaying many warning advertisements on medias, people struggle to stop smoking. There many reasons that explain this, like the addiction of tabasco, the social effect of smoking, and the lack of awareness about the effects from people. However, many ways to reduce smoking on society exist like the promotion of physical activity as well as medical treaments.
Evidence strongly shows that the habit of smoking is triggered by the addictive side of tabasco. In fact, studies demonstrate that tabasco contain substances that affect areas in the brain which are reponsible of the feeling of pleasure and addiction. Thus, smoking becomes more and more pleasant and addictive. Moreover, smoking is a way of socialization for people. In fact, many individuals enjoy being gathered and discuss while they smoke a cigaret. They find it very relaxing and pleasant, so they do not plan to stop it as it allows them to meet new people for example. Nevertheless, I believe that the lack of awareness from people about the negative effects is a major component that explains why people do not want to stop smoking. Indeed, many surveys show that people do not know that smoking has several negative effetcs. They know about lungs cancer, despite it seems not to afraid them, but tooth and throat issues are less known in the vast majority of smokers.
However, many ways exist in order to encourage people to stop smoking. In my opinion, physical activity and medical treatments are the most effective. In fact, governments have been investing a lot in the promotion of physical activity by the means of advertising campaigns. For instance, in the USA, surveys show that there is an increase of 20% of people doing physical activity in order to overcome their addiction issues related to smoking. Moreover, medical treatments have been improved over the last years so as to help people to cope with their addiction with smoking, and studies show that treatments are becoming more and more effective. For instance, in France, the number of smokers has decreased, and medical treatment is the second reason to explain this phenomenon, behind physical activity.
To conclude, even though there are many reasons that explain the addictive behaviours of people to keep smoking, I believe that there are several ways to improve this situation, particularly by the means of physical activity and medical treatments.