---
source: kaggle
---

Young people in some countries are encouraged to take one gap year to work or travel abroad between their high school and university studies. This essay will discuss both of the benefits and drawbacks of the experiences of one year adventure in foreign countries for young people.
To start with, there are several advantages to this adventure abroad. Firstly, young people can meet people from different cultures, beliefs, and ages, and broaden their thoughts and experiences of the world. For instance, they may have cultural shock and reflect their own views and values about life and the world. In this way, they may become more open-minded and tolerant of different people and cultures. Secondly, they can make friends with people in other countries and broaden their social networks. This can become long-term friendships and they can gain a global perspective of the world. This is not only beneficial for themselves, but it can also benefit their societies and countries in long run as well.
However, there are also potential drawbacks to this journey. First and foremost, they can encounter some dangerous situations, such as being scammed, robbed, and even physically harmed. Numerous reports in the media about unfortunate cases that young people in foreign countries being kidnapped, forced to consume or sell drugs, and even being killed. It could be dangerous for them if they meet local gangster bands and have no one to rescue them. Therefore, it is essential that young people take precautions to keep their safety while abroad.
To sum up, although there are potential risks in the one-year journey, the advantages of broadening their horizons of thoughts, becoming open-minded, and experiences of forming new friendships with people in other countries could outweigh the disadvantages if the young people take measures for their safety while abroad.