---
source: kaggle
---

An ideal society where people co-exist in perfect harmony and respect, regardless of race, beliefs, or gender, is a universally desired idea. Although striving for these ideals would benefit the individuals, I strongly believe that an ideal society can never be achieved because it’s unrealistic.
Striving for an ideal society would benefit the individuals because nobody can live better unless they learn to think better. To begin with, virtues such as courage, fairness, and respect are admirable character traits that everyone should try to pursue. If individuals can become better versions of themselves, then the whole community would surely become better. Moreover, different people will have different versions of an ideal society. Hence, encouraging people to actively and critically think about how they can lead better lives will lead to a more open-minded, robust, and tolerant community.
While it’s beneficial for individuals to work on self-improvement, an ideal society can never be created or maintained. Firstly, people are selfish and will pursue their self-interest at the expense of the group. If I can get ahead by taking more resources than my neighbor, then why shouldn’t I take more? Upon seeing me do that, others will envy and start taking more for themselves. Consequently, competition and discord within society are inevitable. Secondly, progress can’t be made unless stronger groups get ahead and wipe out less adaptable ones. Examples include factories replacing farming cultures and technology replacing manual labor.
In conclusion, although striving towards the ideals is beneficial to individuals within communities, the ideal society could never be achieved due to its impracticality. Schools, governments, and communities should nevertheless encourage people to actively think and work on becoming better versions of themselves.