---
source: kaggle
---

In many parts across the globe, people are migrating from rural areas to urban areas in search of a better life. However, this rapid migration has led to popluation explosion in cities which seems to put tremendous pressure on available resources. In order to restore normalcy, this movement ought to be reversed and this can be done in a number of ways.
To begin with, the most common reason why people move to urban centers from rural areas is the fact that urban areas provide a wide range of opportunities that enable people to live a better life. For instance, all major metropolitan areas in the world provide access to state-of-the-art facilties in healthcare and education. Needless to say, both these aspects are the piilars of a good quality life that every individual desires to live. Unfortunately, as rural areas generally lag far behind in both these aspects, people are forced to migrate to cities. Moreover, urban dwellers are undoubtedly benefitted by advancements in all avenues of inquiry compared to their rural counterparts. This is because of the speed with which urban areas are able to incorporate these advancments into their infrastructure. While it may take a couple of months for a technological innovation to make its way to a village, it is not uncommon to see resdidents of a city making use of that innovation within no time. Thus, it makes perfect sense for people to leave the countryside in order to settle in cities.
However, cities are suffering from a host of problems because of large number of people opting to settle here. Firstly, accomodating a burgeoning population is a grave challenge that grips cities. This can be circumvented by providing villages with the basic facilties essential to support life. This would deter people from migrating to cities. Besides, if attempts are made to integrate rural areas into the mainstream, they would be benefitted by latest technological developments and people would no longer feel the need to move to cities in order to take advantage of those advancements.
To conclude, although there are many reasons why individuals are migrating from the countryside into the cities in many parts of the world, if development in rural areas is emphazised upon, this trend could be reversed.