---
source: kaggle
---

There is an increasing number of improper drug users in the modern society, especially the adolescents and teenagers experimenting with various drugs, regardless of the legality of such drugs. This phenomenon spurs the discussion about the underlying reasons, such as the detrimental influence of parents and other people acting improperly. This essay will explore the causes and impacts of extensive drug use among young people, and introduce plausible suggestions to address this issue.
The dominant cause of this problem is the publicity of pharmaceutical companies that exaggerating the efficacy of their products while playing down or concealing the side effects of such drugs, notably, the drugs that can alleviate the tiredness and improve the mood while risking addiction or even the loss of rationality. These drugs help teenagers a lot in terms of avoiding the sleepiness, especially in classes and lectures where they have to focus on the knowledge points expressed by teachers and lecturers. However, given the lack of information about the adverse effects involved, teenagers may gradually get addicted to such drugs. The other contributing factor is the absence of attention paid by parents who more often than not, have to deal with the tremendous workload so that they have little time spent with their children. The improper drug use exerts far-reaching impacts on teenagers and adolescents. The most notable effect in this regard is the deterioration of health conditions, both physically and mentally, as exemplified by the higher frequency of asthma and the worsening ability of socialising.
To tackle this problem, it is necessary for pharmacential corporations to clarify the pros and cons of their products, and for parents to spend more time with their children to identify potential hazards. I expect in the future, more suggestions could arise to solve the problem of drug abuse among young people.