---
source: kaggle
---

With the prevalence of sports nowadays, whether taking part in sports as a team or an individual is more beneficial has sparked off a lively debate. While many believe that playing sports as teams can elevate one's teamwork skills, others believe that playing sports alone can develop self-determination and confidence. Given that sports can be played in either conditions, I would like to discuss both perspectives before giving my opinion.
When it comes to sports, most people would think of team sports such as football, basketball and volleyball. These kinds of sports can help us to evolve important life skills. Especially for children, playing team sports is an indispensible method to develop interpersonal skills. Working as a teammate helps one to build relations and communicate with one another, distributing responsibilities. As a result, the skills the children learnt will be used to cope with future life as teenagers and adults.
Although playing sports alone will not gain any benefits from what I have mentioned above, it will help us to establish skills for an individual, such as self-determination and confidence, as well as concentrate for a long period. For instance, individual sports such as swimming and karate, require sportspeople to build their bravery, as well as formulate techniques to face their opponents. Therefore, even though working in teams can develop better abilities, we should not overlook the fact that doing sports as one can also volatilize its advantage.
Having discussed how sports played alone and as a group can develop corresponding skills, from my perspective, I reckon that playing sports in teams is more beneficial. Almost all walks of life require communication with others, so skills developed in teams are more advantageous then those in person.