---
source: kaggle
---

One of the main objectives of technology is to facilitate people's lives. Nowadays, modern technology has been created to help people in several aspects of their daily lives, one of them being shopping. Some people consider that modern technology has made shopping easier, whereas, some detractors consider that these new technological gadgets have made it more difficult. I highly agree that the current technology has facilitate shopping due to the reasons explained in the following paragraphs.
On the one hand, technology has made shopping easier, because it saves people's money and time. Regarding shopping, new websites, such as, Amazon and Whish, as well as, applications, like Cornershop and Uber Eats, have enabled people to buy food, clothes and various goods from the confort of their homes. Thus, it is no longer necessary to travel to a shop, waste time in a queue and spend money in a parking ticket. This means that people can use the time that was spend in shopping on other activities (i.e., reading a book, doing sports, cooking, among others).
Moreover, technology enabled a new and varied competition in the market, making it possible that small shops, which were uknown and did not have the resources to have a physical space, now can be famous known. For instance, "Mercado Libre" (Free Market in English) is a website that helped several sellers make their products known to the public.
One the other hand, some detractors may indicate that technology has made shopping today more difficult, due to the lack of interpersonal relationship between the seller and the buyer. This hindrance makes it impossible to test the product before buying it. Nowadays, several people prefer staying at home and buy what they need in the internet or in an application, not being possible to have a face to face conversation with the person that it is selling a product. However, websites and applications have reviews by the consumers of the products, therefore, people can be informed of a good before it is bought.
In conclusion, modern technology may imply some complications like the lack of testing a product before buying it, however, the advantages are superior, mainly, because it has make people's lives easier, saving them time and money that could be used in other activities more enriching than going shopping.