---
source: kaggle
---

Computers are presntly an integral part of the civilized world and are essential to daily living. Some individuals believe that they should be introduced into the classroom and used for teaching purposes while others are of the opinion that dependence on computers in teaching may pose a risk to students.
Introducing computers and their programs in educational instuitions for learning purposes is a beneficial thing to students. The world is fast changing and students need to meet up and be at par with others in the world. The globe is becoming a more digital place and computers are the core of that, teaching using computers will open students' minds to new possibilitiies, faster approaches and more advanced ways of solving problems. A recent study showed that 75% of students who were taught using computers are currently more successful than others in their work places.
It is understandable that people also think that dependence on computers in teaching may be detrimental to students. The students may become lazy and may not necessarily want to use their brains to calculate or understand things because the computer has already done that for them. Also using computers to learn in the school environment is also just adding to screen time for the learners; they are already being exposed to lots of wrong things at home adding school to it may not neceesarily the best option.
Personally, students have a lot to learn using computers but truthfully speaking most of them already have the technological know how when it comes to using computers and if they actually want to learn more about how to use them, they can do so at home using the popular learning sites, it doesnt necessarily have to be introduced into the school learning system.
In conclusion,computers are currently the foundation of the modern world and have their advantages and disadvantages, if they are put to the right use at the appropriate place and time, its benefits are beyond measure.