---
source: kaggle
---

Throughout history, adult people have been those who worked on farms and they also were responsible for breeding animals. Recently, it has been suggested that kids in elementary schools should also take part in such occupations. In this essay, I will count possible advantages as well as some disadvantages of such a change in life, in order to conclude whether or not it is a cost effective notion.
It is commonly believed that the enviroment has been endangered by imminent risks. Some people speculate that humans have been less connected to nature and therefore are not aware of the detrimental effects of their activities on the environment. Thus, teaching children how to raise up vegetables and how to get along with pets can probably strengthen bonds between children and nature in early phases of life. Furthermore, If children grew plants in early stage of life, they would develop unique creative skills alongside enhancing their productivity. Moreover, some experts claim that treating animals may benefit children as it would improve their social and communicational skills.
On the other hand, there is another aspect which merits futher consideration. Some plants are known to be poisonous and unsafe to young people. In addition, growing plants and spending time on farms might make children prone to a few insects and reptiles which can be really dangerous. Finally, animals could be harmful if they are treated inappropriately.
To recapitulate, as we try to wiegh up the pros and cons of such an enterprise, I still reckon that the advantages of it outweigh the disadvantages. However, in order guarantee the possible advantages I have mentioned upun above, certain safety measures should be taken to offset the potential risks opposed to children as they are in proximity to plants and animals.