---
source: kaggle
---

People have different views about whether children should be educated at home or at school. Although teaching at home sometimes provided a more comfortable environment, I believe that making children go to school is better for their development.
On the one hand, studying at home always provides a comfortable environment for children. When children study at some place they live and stay every day, they tend to be more relaxed, it can encourage children to study in better efficiency. In addition, education plans can be customized if children are going to study at home, and maximize their advantages in talents. Take the case of Lang Lang, who was a famous Chinese musician, he was found talented in piano since he was the age of 5 and started long-term customized piano training at home, eventually becoming the champion of the Chinese national piano competition in his 20s. Furthermore, parents can take care of children’s study progression, difficulties, and mental health the first time, and make corresponding adjustments in time.
On the other hand, it perhaps better for children’s development to let them get used to go to school. Firstly, despite the comfortable, simple environment at home, children could not always stay inside their “green house” once they grew up, they need to develop the ability to be compatible with the pressures that come from a more complex social environment, while school can be their first step to practicing such ability. Secondly, it is necessary for children to learn and apply team collaboration skills in order to overcome some difficulties that could not be solved by a single person. Finally, school is the first platform that enables children to develop their own networking, which is a kind of wealth that can help their personal development in the future. For example, many typical famous people like Napoleon Bonaparte, and Winston Churchill all started to develop strong social networking since they were in school, and the networking provided them with vital help on their path to success.
In conclusion, I can understand why people might want children to be taught at home, but I strongly hold the opinion that it’s better for children’s development to send them to school.