---
source: kaggle
---

Throughout modern history there have always been professional and gifted individuals from developed countries who aspire to immigrate into more developed societies. Recently this trend has been more emphatic resulting in a disputable discussion which has been widely talked about. Should rich governments permit local workplaces to recruit foreign employees? I personally agree with this point of view and I will elaborate on the reasons in this essay.
There are several possible advantages of hosting employers from poor countries. First, foreign employees can bring with them new innovations and methods of research which in turn will enrich the local markets and possibly contribute to enhancing the knowledge. In addition, foreign employers are generally paid lower income in comparison to local workers, this could save up money for other investments. Moreover, a swarm of skilled immigrants will probably increase the competition among local employers and encourage them to improve in different aspect in order to secure employment.
There are other aspects which merit consideration. Most of the foreign employers would utilize their occupation in the developed countries in improving their skills and knowledge and might consider going back to their homelands. This knowledge transfer would probably benefit both sides. As developed nations will employ the new comers and harness their experience in developing the education, health and other forms. Interestingly, this prosperity in developed countries will presumably lower the influx of unemployed and illiterate immigrants into the rich countries.
To conclude, I agree with the title statement regarding the several advantages of such an action. Historically, if rich countries had adopted skilled people from poor nations, there would have probably been fewer immigrants into their developed countries with all the know repercussions of this phenomenon.