---
source: kaggle
---

Some individuals say that children's obesity is the fault of the parents, while others argue that it is strictly the governments fault. While both have effects on the childs habits from an early age, i think that it is mostly the parents fault.
It is debated that childhood obesity is mainly the parents responsibility for various reasons. Many parents schedueles and lifestyles are not fit for having a child as their routines are not flexible enough to properly take care of him/her. For example, in most western houses, both the mother and the father have jobs to attend everyday, and dont return home to their children till the late afternoon. By that time, the parents will both be too exausted to properly look after their child, which will lead to him/her eating any food no matter its quality and source such as fast foods and sweets, which are calorie dense and low volume. Furthermore, studies have shown that around 42 percent of parents in the United States did not care what their child consumed given it was cheap and does not require preparation. As far as i am concerned, this is enough evidence to justify it being mostly the parents fault.
On the other hand, others argue that it is primarely the governments fault. Governments have complete control over what advertisements can or cannot be portrayed to the public. Knowing that most advertisements we see are related to fast food chains and chocolate bars, we can deduce that it undoubtebly has a major effect on children which will beg their parents. to try some of this food. In addition, it has been scientifically proven that fast foods contain substances which encourage addiction. So when fast foods are easily accesible no matter which city you are in, parents will have a hard time controlling which foods their children eat. I agree that the government has a major influence on children, but their parents have greater controll over them.
In conclusion, while the government is undoubtebly the root of obesity amongst children, it is completely up to the parents to either develop this problem or put limitations to it.