---
source: kaggle
---

There is a debatable issue regarding competition and cooperation. Some people hold that adolescents should be encouraged to compete, while others disagree and argue that teaching children to work together is more important. This essay will analyse both positions and illuminate my standpoint.
As for those highlighting the importance of competition, these people may have their position grounded upon the fact that children can learn a lot by competing against each other, especially when they encounter numerous obstacles brought by their strong opponents and suffer failures. Only under such adverse conditions can children understand their drawbacks and the ways of improvement. Apart from that, if children have hard-earned victories over competent rivals, they are likely to gain tremendous pleasure of success as well as huge confidence that motivates them to keep working diligently and achieve more success.
On the contrary, in terms of those attaching greater importance to cooperation than to competition, these people may justify their position by citing a large number of examples elucidating the role of collaboration in various tasks, such as the production of a high-tech gadget of which the parts are manufactured by different countries, and a formal meeting where people present their respective views on a given issue in order to comprehenively understand the situation. Admittedly, these examples sufficiently explain the importance of cooperation. However, this does not mean that cooperation must outweigh competition since the two ways of interaction influence us differently and it is rather impractical to identify which one is more influential to us.
To sum up, competition and cooperation benefit us in different ways. It is hardly possible to conclude which one is more important to us.