---
source: kaggle
---

Despite knowing about the adverse effects of climate change, human activities have been highly responsible for global warming for decades. This essay will discuss the main causes of temperature rising including the excessive use of fossil fuels and plastic pollution. This essay will further suggest solutions to these problems including decreasing the consumption of fossil fuels and reducing the dumping of waste in the sea.
Most people are guzzling fossil fuels, churning out greenhouse gases and messing with our planet's climate like there's no tomorrow. For instance, driving to the grocery store burns a certain amount of fuel, resulting in an increase in carbon footprint. The combustion of fossil fuels emits CO2, which in turn traps heat in the atmosphere, hence making it the primary contributor to global warming. Moreover, dumping plastic in oceans deprive phytoplanktons of sunlight. As a result, the planktons are not able to carry out photosynthesis, a process that removes CO2 and releases oxygen, which leads to disruption of the world's carbon cycle and ultimately makes the planet warmer. Thus human activities that contribute to an escalation in CO2 emissions are the prime causes of a rise in global temperature.
Substituting fossil fuels with other renewable energy sources and reducing plastic usage are both critical to mitigating this phenomenon. For example, people should install solar lights in their homes instead of Led bulbs. We should also curb the buying of processed or canned foods and should always take our own paper bags while going  grocery shopping to prevent the use of plastic bags. Furthermore, using public transportations rather than private vehicles for commuting would significantly alleviate our carbon footprint. Therefore, if humans shift to renewable and recyclable materials then it would drastically minimise the temperature rising issues.
To conclude, people's actions that change the environment have a negative impact on the global climate. However, we can substantially lessen it by curbing fossil fuels and plastic usage.