---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays population of the cities have grown bigger than in the countryside. I will write about my thought of the cause of the movement from the countryside into the cities, and if there is a possibility to reverse this event, what it will be.
First, I think the cause of the movement is partly because of the difference of the convenience, and the work types you can get between in the countrysides, and in the cities. Personally I do prefer to live in the countrysides, but I can't bare if there are none or slow internet connections there. Also I think the varieties of the jobs you can get are quite different in each location. For example, when I went to Australia to get jobs, of course people tend to stay in the cities so that they can get easy, fancy city jobs like waiter/waitress, shop retail, jobs related with news papers and so on. However the number of jobs are limited. I really wanted to stay in the city, but the amount of money you get was not quite enough to pay rent, and holiday fee, so I moved into the countrysides which had varieties of farm jobs. Sure there were easy jobs like in the cities, but the number of shops, and restaurants are quite small, and they were hiring mostly local people rather than working holiday workers. There I got a farm hand job in the tomato field. It was really hard job. We needed to work from 7 am when the sun rises to 6 pm when the sun sets. It was hard for my poor body, too. That is why I think most people move to the cities rather than stay in the countrysides.
Although I am not sure if there is a possibility to reverse this event, I think there are quite a lot of good experience you can only get in the countrysides. One thing I can say is the people and the living pace are slower, and more relaxed in countrysides than in the cities. For example like I myself said, I prefer living in the countrysides than in the cities. In fact I moved to Edmonton in Canada, which is a city, but I'd say more like a town, but a lot more relaxed than Tokyo where I used to live. Sometimes people living in the crazy fast cities like Tokyo, New York, and etc actually want to slow down the pace to more relaxing cities, or countrysides. If we want to reverse this movement, I think you need to advertise what benefits you can get in the countrysides. For example, they have quite magnificent views, good benefits to raise your kids, and so on. I think it can really reverse the movement because nowadays people are so interested in the educations of their kids, so scientifically we need to prove that living in the countrysides, and raising the children can be really beneficial for them. I myself have 2 children, and I can feel the benefits of living in the countrysides. The more free time they have, the more creative they become, and I strongly believe the more creative they are, the more happier they can lead their lives.
As a result, I believe that we can reverse, or slow down the speed of the movement of the people from the countrysides into the cities if we empharsise the benefits of raising kids in the countrysides more.