---
source: kaggle
---

It is advised that toddlers should learn about growing vegetables and raising animals. Although there are downsides to this proposal, the overall advantages seem to outweigh the disadvantages in this matter.
The main advantage of teaching the younger generation how to farm vegetables and keeping animals is that it can enhance their understanding of the environment. There is no doubt that school kids could learn about the environment on books, but the most effective way is to interact with the habitation of vegetables and animals as they can easily be related with. In addition, by learning about foods and animals, children could quickly develop their awareness of not wasting food. Only when children realize how difficult and complicated it is to nurture food, can they stop wasting food or throwing food they dislike. For instance, public schools in Melbourne developed a targeted curriculum to supporting primary children to learn about the growth of foods and the significance of preserving the environment and reduce food waste. Hence, the advantage is obvious since younger pupils must recognise the world they live in.
However, it is suggested that the physical risk of allowing primary offspring to learn about farming could not be overlooked. One of the root disadvantages of caring for animals is the safety issue as animals might have potentially harmful effects on young kids. To elaborate, there is a mixture of the hidden virus on animals' bodies, due to the fragility of children's immune systems, they are too vulnerable to defend against external viruses, not to even mention the physical attack from animals to children. According to the agricultural department, there are 300 cases of animals attacking children reported every year in China, which could be considered as a piece of strong evidence of the disadvantages.
In conclusion, despite the potential drawbacks of learning about animals and floras, the benefits of involving young toddlers in discovering about the environment still outweigh the downside.