---
source: kaggle
---

The debate over whether it is better to own or rent the property in which one lives is one that has strong supporters on each side. There are persuasive arguments for both points of view.One of the main advantages of renting a property is flexibility. Usually, a tenant only has to give a month’s notice before changing where he or she lives. If a property is owned and a change is needed, the property must be put onto the market and it is frequently a long and stressful process to get a sale completed. Sometimes, the wrong time of year or a bad market can mean that a sale is not possible. Another advantage of renting is that a large amount of a family’s capital is not tied up in the property. Property can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and often a lot more. If one rents, this money can be spent on other things to help improve the family’s quality of life. If the property is on a mortgage, then the deposit, also often very large, is tied up in the property and the pressure of having to make substantial payments every month can cause a lot of stress.Owning a property does have various advantages, though. Even though people usually have to service a mortgage every month with payments, this money is then built up with the property. With renting, the money is lost to the landlord, but at the end of the term of the mortgage, the whole property is owned by the family. This makes the process of living in a property a type of investment. In addition, the property’s value often goes up after time, frequently creating a substantial profit. Owning the property where one lives can also create a sense of well-being and self-actualisation.The decision to whether one rents or owns the property in which one lives really boils down to individual preference. My opinion is that it is much more preferable to own a property, mainly because it creates a valuable asset for the family.