---
source: kaggle
---

Some people believe that modifying behaviour among school-going children can be achieved through corporal punishment, and that it being on the decline in schools, is actually a negative development. I strongly disagree with this this view as I am of the opinion that there are better ways of disciplining children to instill positive behaviour, than physically hitting them.
Improvement of behaviour among children in schools can be achieved through teaching them good manners rather than using corporal punishment. This means that teachers and school staff should teach children acceptable and unacceptable behaviour as part of their school curriculum from the earleist age they enter school. This way, learners obtain knowledge required for them to practice good behaviour. For example, if a child is taught from primary school-going age that they should clean after their mess, they are likely to practise and carry this behaviour through to secondary school. That way, there would be no need to physically hit children. Although some may firmly believe that corporal punishment is a good form of discipline, it cannot be compared to the actual teaching of good behaviour.
Moreover, corporal punishment is likely to produce a fearful and resentful child rather than a well mannered child. It has been found by many researchers that children are unlikely to change their bad behaviour because they are beaten up at school. The behaviour is most likely to get worse, instead, as learners become fearful and resent their learning environment. For instance, in South Africa, some learners were reported to be disrespectful to their teachers because of a bad relationship that existed between them and their teachers as a result of corporal punishment that was inflicted on them. While it may be true that some positive behaviour changes were seen among pupils due to use of corporal punishment, this is at a very small scale.
In conclusion, I am of the view that the use of corporal punishment among school-going age children is not a desirable phenomenon, as it is unlikely to produce any required behavioural changes. Instead, instilling good manners in learners through teaching them is more effective, as physically hitting them may even worsen their undesirable behaviour.