---
source: kaggle
---

Going to university is an important step in life. It will majorly impact their futurs, and will define them in many ways. Unfortunatly, this is an expensive task that not everyone can afford. Thit is the reason why some people think that governments should pay course fees for university students. In this essay, I will explain why I think governments should help students of universities financially by paying their course fees.
To begin with, this could make universities more inclusive and help some students achieve their dreams. Some people, due to their economic background, are forced to attend specific establishments, even though they would give anything to be somewhere else. This is an important cause of class differences, and the source of many disciminations today. This is why, offering to pay for their course fees, would considerably help students that are less wealthy, and fight against inequalities.
To illustrate this argument, here is an example. Some of my class-mates receive a specific amount of money from an organization, that helps them study at my shool. They find it amazing because, now they are not only defined by their parents' income anymore, and they have the opportunity to accomplish whatever they wish in life.
Secondly, an enormous amount of students live in a precarous situation, so by paying their course fees they could have a more stable life. University life is rough, you are not with your family, you have to manage so many different things for the first time, one of which being money. Some students have little to no money that they can spend in recreational activities, a big part of it being assigned to accomodations, school fees and food. By paying some of their fees, students could benefit from the money and do what they enjoy. This could help them mentally and make them enjoy life a bit more.
On the other hand, I can understand that if governments had to pay for the course fees of every students, it would represent a tremendous amount of money that could be invested in other and more pressing matters. Although, I do still think that providing this aid could have more benefits than downsides.
In conclusion, the governments shoulp help students by paying their course fees. This could open some students to new opportunities or help others live in better conditions. Students are the futur of every states, that's why I invite everyone reading this to invest in them.