---
source: kaggle
---

Recently, many countries have legalized gay marriage. However, there are many people who do not agree with that, and claim that it has a bad influence on the education of children, and the evolution of society. However, in my opinion, I think it is a good opportunity for homosexual people as they are now understood by others, and have the right to have children despite of their situation.
To begin, there are many parents, for example, who tend to believe that because of the access to gay marriage, their children will find it normal to fall in love with a person from the same sex. As a result, more and more children will become homosexual, which is unconventional as far as the parents are concerned. However, I believe that it is not because children understand the fact that being gay is normal, that they will be influenced by this. In fact, they will be able to compassionate for people who struggle to express their homosexuality, so they will help them to feel more comfortable with that. Moreover, they will be more open-minded which is very important for children development.
Secondly, many other people are convinced that gay marriage will inevitably tends towards a decrease of the young population as gay individuals can not have their own kids. As a consequence, This phenomenon represents a threat because young people will not be able to take over for the future. However, I am not of this opinion. I think that such a decrease in young people population will not occur as the vast majority of the world's population in not homosexual. Moreover, by allowing gay marriage, gay couples will be able to adopt children. Indeed, due to the fact that they are not able to give rise to new-born, they can adopt children who are abandonned, and give them the opportunity to live in a new family with good conditions.
To conclude, I firmly believe that gay marriage is a good opportunity for the development of the society. Indeed, not only it makes children more open-minded, which is important for their own development, but also gives for those who are unfortunately abandonned, a safe environment to thrive in.