---
source: kaggle
---

There is currently a material issue that while the majority of students are eager to learn business or art in university, there are only a few students who want to study science, leading to numerous negative effects on community. With respect to this matter, there are also a wide variety of factors that influence the decision of students to not study science subjects.
It is undeniable that there are many reasons why undergraduates avoid studying science. A classic example of this is that science is extremely difficult to understand. In order to fully comprehend a particular scientific phenomenon, students have to learn complex theories that cause the phenomena. Therefore, they tend to choose other subjects that are easier to understand. Another common reason is a small amount of salary for working in scientific fields. When student choose subjects to study at university, they tend to enroll in an area that they could make a lot of money from having that knowledge. Since science career does not offer high remuneration, student possibly prefer to study other subjects such as business which offers higher salary instead.
It is true that there are many negative consequences on society of having less undergraduates studying science. One clear impact of this is the decreasing in innovation. This is because scientific comprehension is a mandatory requirement for creating an innovation. Hence, having only a few people who understand science will inevitably hold the creation of modern innovation. Furthermore, the current environmental crisis, such as an increase in global temperature, would perhaps reach a point of no return. Since the crisis relates to environment which is one of scientific aspects, having a small number of attention from students would lead to less social pressure to address this crisis properly.
In conclusion, it is the fact that science is complicated and people who have scientific knowledge can make less money than those who are expertise in other areas, resulting in less popularity in learning about science for university students. Moreover, with the rise in this problem, this trend possibly suspends the creation of new innovation and deteriorate the current environmental issues, which are two most crucial matters for society.