---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays all over the world more and more families immigrate from rural to urban areas and such a situation leads to a number of undesirable consequences for city residents and regions in general. In this essay I shall try to cover some reasons for this trend as well as provide a number of solutions.
To start with, we have to consider the logic behind this movement. Firstly, as a rule, the countryside does not have enough educational institutions, so after finishing high school most students are obliged to move to other parts of the country in order to obtain higher education and, eventually, apply for well-paid jobs that are available only in bigger cities. Secondly, despite being provided with basic services, people still feel the lack of entertainment facilities, such as cinemas, theaters and others. In other words, most of the rural population is bored and have nothing else to do, that is why they are bound to immigrate to urban areas.
Luckily, there are a number of solutions, which could be implemented and, hopefully, they can solve or, at least, ease the situation. Initially, it is vitally important that the government allocates more funds to rural areas and use this money for construction of public amenities such as hospitals, schools, kindergartens, and others. If those facilities were introduced, then villagers would have fewer incentives to move. The second option that we have to consider is to promote living in the countryside by providing tax cuts, subsidies and other measures of economic stimulation, which could prove to be effective in the long run.
All things considered, it can be clearly seen that the lack of facilities and money are the two most important reasons as to why more villagers move to the cities. Unless the government provides a number of economic incentives along with public facilities, it might be difficult to overturn this trend.