---
source: kaggle
---

Nowadays, trading businesses are made throughout the world resulting from the increased globalization. Consequently, employees are requested to have a variety of knowledge in their jobs due to remain a highly competitive capabilities in labour markets over the world. Parents have much struggles on the arrangement regarding additional classes out of school to their children in order to gain the competitive advantages in their future career. This eassy attempts to find out the main considerations on this.
There is no doubt that school curriculum largely focuses on academic studies, including physical, Maths and organic chemistry etc., Those subjects are designed to connect with learning in a higher education. It is reasonable to say that this curriculum may not enable the teenagers to gain various knowledeges aspects of digital world and our planet. Learning in extra classes out of syllabus is an opportunity for them to really discover what they may be passionate about and in turn, help them develop new skills that may come in handy for a future occupation that is related.
On the other hand, it is not difficult to notice a lot of parents forcing their children into learning something that does not interest them. Sometimes, the intensive courses are arranged by parents to their children study at the weekends. As a result, it could lead to undesired results or even negative impacts on the parent-child relationship, so maybe it's best for children to figure it out on their own sometimes.
My take on this is that younsters are extremely inquisitive and energetic, consequently, it's really the prime time of their life to explore and learn new things. Studying in classes outside the syllabus are good intention, but children are forced to learn what their parents love to only. This not only ruins the parent-child relationship but also may results in children's resistance to learning.