---
source: kaggle
---

Some people think that physical strength is important for success in sport, while other people think that mental strength is more important. This essay will discuss both these views with examples and show that while some people esteem physical strength, it is important to think of mental stretgth as a companion of physical strength which give any person in sports agility and flexibility.
Physical strength has been supported by many people as an important factor for success in sport. Those who think that physical strength is more important believe that it is a person's physique that is required to win any sport. For instance, in a study conducted by the Australisn National Team among sport fanatics in Perth, 80% of participants stated that physical strength was everything that any person involved in any kind of sport required to be succesful. Some participants in this study cited soccer as one such sport requiring physical strength. These findings were supported by another study conducted by a PhD student at the University of Sydney. The student concluded that while mental strength was important in any physically inclined sport, it was difficult to measure brain resources recquired to engage in sports like running.
On the other hand, some people think that mental strength gives stamina and agility to any person involved in sports. One prominent argument in this school of thought is that the body is a slave of the mind. Every action taken by the body is a response to the triggers initiated in the mind. Therefore, nourishing and strengthening mental capacity translates to physical strength. In a research study conducted among college students in America, it was found that mental strength was more esteemed than physical strength. It was argued in this study that mental strength was the breath that gave life to physical strength.
In conclusion, it can be argued that the reality of both mental and physical strength and their role in supporting a succesful sports career is not painted in black and white. A physically strong person needs to use their mental strength to plan and outwit their opponent. They also need tact and flexibility of the body which stem from the coordination between the body and the mind. As such, both mental and physical strength are important in supporting a successful sports career.