---
source: kaggle
---

Noise pollution has caught the attention of the public due to the disturbance it gives to the community. This issue has raised some concern whether proper legislations must be implemented or not. In this essay, the positive side as well as the drawbacks of noise will be discussed and the reason why I think that it is better for our leaders to take action regarding this matter will be explained.
Noise can give the community awareness and enjoyment. Noise can help people know what is going on in their area. For example, during thee COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines, it is mandatory for the local government to sound sirens and alarms for the city to know that the curfew has began, leading to people's awareness that they should be at their homes in time. In terms of enjoyment, a substantial amount of noise can make one enjoy his free time, such that his leisure activity is related to music. Instrumentalists need time to practice their skills for them to excel in this field. If laws regarding to noise will be implemented, their practice will be controlled in such a way that this will not be available on their ends.
On the other hand, one considers noise as a pollution that can cause detrimental effects in the society, resulting for an aim to reduce it by the help of the government. Noise can give a person distractions not only in his rest, but also in his work. Work form home is becoming ubiquitous nowadays. Once noise is uncontrolled, there is a tendency that distractions occur, which cause poor career performance. Also, sufficient rest is an essential commodity for the body and brain to recharge after long shifts of work. Noise can hinder one to attain this, leading to health problems, such as brain and physical fatigue. Hence, laws must be implemented by the authority to prevent the drawbacks that it can bring to an individual.
In conclusion, noise is beneficial to some for it brings an increase in awareness and enjoyment in leisure activities, however, one ought to consider the health risks it inflicts and its negative effects to one's work performance. In my view, the government must strictly prohibit noise pollution and that legislations must be firmly established to prevent the drawbacks it can make.