---
source: kaggle
---

The Internet is now employed extensively worldwide, serving as an important source of information and communication. Nevertheless, the widespread use of internet also spurs a debate on whether online activities should be controlled or not. Some people hold that such control is necessary, while others disagree and argue that the use of internet should not be restricted. This essay will analyse both positions and illuminate my standpoint.
As for those agreeing with the control of online activities, they have their position grounded upon the fact that numerous criminal activities run rampant online and should be tackled effectively, as exemplified by fraudulent advertisements aimed at cheating money and hacking technologies targeted at violating privacy. If unchecked, cybercrimes would increasingly disturb the society and cause widespread complaints. Another reason reinforcing this position is that the online information that is inappropriate for minors should be reduced, such as the movies containing erotic or violent scenes, as well as foul language. Otherwise, children may be led astray by such information, acting improperly at home or school.
In terms of those who barely support online control, they may justify their position by explaining the importance of unlimited internet access to task efficiency. For instance, businessmen could seek potential clients by online searching, which is apparently more efficient than issuing leaflets on a street publicizing themselves. However, if internet users cannot identify the authenticity of online information, they may assume the risk of being cheated. Given this concern, a certain extent of intervention is needed for screening fake information.
As far as I am concerned, I opine that online control is justified, because it helps to address multiple cybercrimes and inappropriate information for adolescents. I expect in the future, more views could arise to furnish the understanding in this regard.