---
source: kaggle
---

Today’s society overwhelmingly depends on products made from fossil fuels. Most people would initially think about fuel for transport, but of course, fossil fuels are part of most of the fabric of life around us, from the plastics on our furniture to the pavements that we walk on. Changing our reliance on these resources can have various consequences; however, I believe that overall the society will benefit from finding viable alternatives for them.Depending on whether eco-friendly alternatives are developed, the positive effect on transport and the reduction of the associated pollution will be significant. Exhaust fumes from motor vehicles, planes and ships decrease air quality and contribute to global warming and the greenhouse effect. People’s health and the health of the planet will surely improve without these industries relying on fossil fuels. It could be that a type of transport crisis could develop as a result if society can no longer provide the power to transport so many individuals to where they want to go. This, however, does not have to be a bad thing, as it could force society to use alternative solutions, such as transport sharing and public transport development. The change in mind set has already begun. Some countries have already committed to having fossil fuel free transport and more cities are banning private vehicles from the centre of cities.Another positive development would be that more time and money would have to be put into developing renewable sources of energy, such as wind power, solar power, hydropower and tidal power. Technologies would improve and be more efficient and again, the world would use fewer sources of energy that cause pollution. This development can also be seen today, with many governments committing to proportions of their power needs coming from renewable resources.I, therefore, strongly agree with the statement that the changes from reducing reliance on fossil fuels will be positive. The only caveat is that society will need to have developed alternative sources of power rather soon, in order to avoid an energy crisis.