---
source: kaggle
---

Translation softwares are a convenience that we see popping up more and more around us these days. I have seen these being used in daily life around me even very recently. For example, I was recently at the airport to travel from the east coast to the west coast of the US. While there, a passenger in line before me at the luggage drop off had his phone out and was talking to the attendants using his phone. On paying closer attention I realized, he was using a translation software to understand what they said and to respond back to them. It took some effort on both sides, but in the end, it worked!
This is a real-life example of translation software making peoples' lives easier on a regular basis. Witnessing this got me thinking - what would have happened in the absence of this service being available literally on the tips of our fingers. In the absence of this easy access to technology as we have today however, it has come down to one thing - the human capacity to learn and communicate in more than one language.
Coming from a multicultural background where none of my neighbors spoke the same language as me, it was inevitable that I would be exposed to multiple languages since childhood. This is a reality for most metropolitan cities around the world. When I was three years old and could communicate to some degree in my mother tongue or native language, my father ensured I also learned another one of our National languages that was prevalent in the region. By the time I was six-seven years old, I could conveniently speak in two languages. Meanwhile, in school, I was being exposed to the English alphabet in addition to the two other languages which made it easy to learn and understand English too. I can categorically say that knowing all three languages made my life infinitely easier for me since we moved around a lot due to my father's work arrangements.
Later on, during my college days, I met my best friend of eighteen years and was exposed to her native language or mother tongue and since then have picked up a passing knowledge of the language as well. The movies and plays around us while young used multiple languages too and as a result I have a passing knowledge of six languages today. This knowledge not only makes communicating a breeze for me in most areas in my country, it keeps my brain active.
In conclusion, I believe while translation softwares definitely make life easier for us on different occasions, being bilingual, trilingual, or a polyglot serves to make life interesting and easy at the same time. Truly understanding and speaking a language brings to light so many nuanced facets of an entire culture surrounding the language which cannot be translated through a translation software. It has been proven that learning multiple languages helps keep the human brain adaptable and flexible - all marks of a young and active mind. From my personal experiences, I believe that the translation softwares serve as a quick solution to the language barrier for people in general, learning a language brings in a level of richness to ones experience of life as a whole. Translations softwares should therefore not be considered as a replacement for learning a language but as an aide to learning a new skill.