---
source: kaggle
---

Living in the 21st Century, it is without doubt that most of us already possess the luxury of having everything we need such as shelter, clothes and most importantly food and water. Despite this, it is sad to say that there are still a handful of the world's population that remain in the depths of poverty. And even so, many countries are found guilty to wasting huge amounts of food. In this essay, I will discuss the reason behind this food wastage and suggest solutions to reduce this effect.
First and foremost, why do people waste food? It is to my belief that people tend to take more food than they can handle, especially at functions like all-you-can-eat buffets alongside weddings which act as a few of the many major contributers of food waste. In general, there is also the lack of awareness on poverty among the public to blame for. Therefore, people cannot practice consideration towards a cause they are unfamilar or unaware of. Other than that, they lack exposure to knowledge on the impact that food waste can bring to the environment and the society.
Now, what actions can we take to reduce amount of food disposed? The government and country's leaders should take the first step in conducting educational campaigns on food wastes and poverty, particularly targeting school children and the public. This can play a significant role in shedding light onto the issues that need to be addressed urgently. People should also be strongly encouraged to take a more sensible amount of food before coming back for seconds to avoid the unecessary wastage as well as the excess weight gain.
To sum up, food wastage is not something to be proud of because of the all the adverse effects brought upon us, humans. Hence, we should quickly make the much needed change to help to turn this situation around and hopefully contribute to creating a better society.