---
source: kaggle
---

There is currently a contentious argument regarding the purpose of having cosmetic surgery since more and more people prefer to use this method to improve their appearance. Considering the factors that support the decision to choose this improvement method, there are various reasons which I will discuss in this essay. In terms of consequences, I personally believe that there is a positive development.
It is the fact that people have a wide variety of rationales to have cosmetic surgery. An obvious example of this is that people can design their new appearance in the way they wish to be look like. This is because a doctor could perform modern medical techniques such as modifying bone at the patients’ nose to change their real face, which natural face improvement cannot do. Another common reason is the increase in self-confidence. When people have plastic surgery, they tend to believe that their appearance will be more accepted by other people, helping them to feel more confident.
Contemplating the effects of people who have plastic surgery, there are many vital advantages. A common criticism in favour of this is the rise in productivity in workplace. When people feel more confident as a result of having cosmetic surgery, they tend to be more courageous to communicate with people in other departments, leading to the increasing workflow between two teams. Another classic example is building more networking. This is because people who positively improve their appearance tend to attract other people’s attention. As a result, more and more people might want to know them.
In conclusion, it is undeniable that cosmetic surgery could address people’s eagerness to have better appearance and be more confident, which, in my opinion, results in a positive consequence to both society and them. This is because they would have willingness to contact other people and draw other people’s attention to them, which could grow their connections.