---
source: kaggle
---

Some governments budget a considerable amount of expenditure on space exaploration, yet many opponents voice their opinion that it is meaningless to financially support this aspect, and this money should be alternatively allotted on other more important priorities. My firm conviction is that it is rewarding to pour money into exploring outer space since it might produce long-term benefits.
From a short-term pespective, there are seemingly compelling reasons to exclude space exploration from the national budget. The result of exploring the exterrestrial space is unpredictable. If research fails, it would be a loss of financial resources considering the huge cost. Besides, compared with space exploration, education inequality, health care problems and underdeveloped infrastuctures are more urgent issues, meaning that money spent on these facets may produce immediate benefits for people's quality of life.
However, I firmly believe we should hold a long-term perspective and figure out potential merits brought about by exploring and researching the outer space. First of all, environmental problems, such as global warming and water shortage, are gradually worsening and threatening people's health to a large extent. Allocating financial resources on space exploration could further investigate and prove whether there are life forms or natural resources on another planet, which might provide a soultion to those long-exisiting environmental issues. Also, many exisiting technologies closely associated with the daily life of mainkind, such as weather forcast and earthquake anticipation, are also highly reliant on the space technology. This will allow humans to take necessary precautions in the face of some urgent situations.
To summarize, I believe space exploration is a long-term solution to many existing problems on this planet, and thus deserve adaquate government expenditure.