---
source: kaggle
---

Apart from education, leisure is an essential part that helps children to discover their interests and develop both physical and mental abilities. While many agree that parents are responsible for managing their children's free time, the others argue that the kids themselves should be entitled to make their own decisions. As a grown up, I personally believe that the kids should be allowed to select activities based on their preferences within the scope provided by the parents, as per the following reasons.
To begin with, no one likes to be forced. After long days of either tiresome work or study, everyone wants to enjoy their time afterwards. This also applies to the students, which in many cultures, are put into after school classes to spend more time tutoring in order to catch up with the academic standards. Although some can endure this intense lifestyle, most of the time, these schedules usually cause the kids to be overworked and stressed. Therefore, it is important to spare some times for the children to manage their own activities. Nevertheless, unlike adults who are financially independent, the kids can be subjected to many limitations.
Despite being able to participate in many activities, the underages must be legally supervised by several reasons, one of them being decision-making abilitiy. Parents can play a very important part in disapproving activities that are inappropriate for the kids. For example, if not accompanied or consulted, children can end up meeting with strangers or playing dangerous extreme sports. Furthermore, most of the time, the underages usually rely on their parents' earnings, which lead back to them approving the recreational budgets.
All in all, it is necessary to allow the kids to have autonomy over their free time as it allows them to develop sense of responsibility along with discovering their interests. However, these decisions must be reviewed and approved by the parents to ensure the budget added and security of the children themselves.