---
title: "Agentic AI for Integrated Sensing and Communication: Analysis, Framework, and Case Study"
authors: "Wenwen Xie, Geng Sun, Ruichen Zhang, Xuejie Liu, Yinqiu Liu, Jiacheng Wang, Dusit Niyato, Ping Zhang"
categories: "cs.AI, cs.NI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.15044v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.15044v1"
---

## Abstract

Integrated sensing and communication (ISAC) has emerged as a key development direction in the sixth-generation (6G) era, which provides essential support for the collaborative sensing and communication of future intelligent networks. However, as wireless environments become increasingly dynamic and complex, ISAC systems require more intelligent processing and more autonomous operation to maintain efficiency and adaptability. Meanwhile, agentic artificial intelligence (AI) offers a feasible solution to address these challenges by enabling continuous perception-reasoning-action loops in dynamic environments to support intelligent, autonomous, and efficient operation for ISAC systems. As such, we delve into the application value and prospects of agentic AI in ISAC systems in this work. Firstly, we provide a comprehensive review of agentic AI and ISAC systems to demonstrate their key characteristics. Secondly, we show several common optimization approaches for ISAC systems and highlight the significant advantages of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI)-based agentic AI. Thirdly, we propose a novel agentic ISAC framework and prensent a case study to verify its superiority in optimizing ISAC performance. Finally, we clarify future research directions for agentic AI-based ISAC systems.
