---
title: "GAIR: GUI Automation via Information-Joint Reasoning and Group Reflection"
authors: "Zishu Wei, Qixiang Ma, Xavier Hu, Yuhang Liu, Hui Zang, Yudong Zhao, Tao Wang, Shengyu Zhang, Fei Wu"
categories: "cs.MA, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.09396v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.09396v1"
---

## Abstract

Building AI systems for GUI automation task has attracted remarkable research efforts, where MLLMs are leveraged for processing user requirements and give operations. However, GUI automation includes a wide range of tasks, from document processing to online shopping, from CAD to video editing. Diversity between particular tasks requires MLLMs for GUI automation to have heterogeneous capabilities and master multidimensional expertise, raising problems on constructing such a model. To address such challenge, we propose GAIR: GUI Automation via Information-Joint Reasoning and Group Reflection, a novel MLLM-based GUI automation agent framework designed for integrating knowledge and combining capabilities from heterogeneous models to build GUI automation agent systems with higher performance. Since different GUI-specific MLLMs are trained on different dataset and thus have different strengths, GAIR introduced a general-purpose MLLM for jointly processing the information from multiple GUI-specific models, further enhancing performance of the agent framework. The general-purpose MLLM also serves as decision maker, trying to execute a reasonable operation based on previously gathered information. When the general-purpose model thinks that there isn't sufficient information for a reasonable decision, GAIR would transit into group reflection status, where the general-purpose model would provide GUI-specific models with different instructions and hints based on their strengths and weaknesses, driving them to gather information with more significance and accuracy that can support deeper reasoning and decision. We evaluated the effectiveness and reliability of GAIR through extensive experiments on GUI benchmarks.
