---
title: "From Real-World Traffic Data to Relevant Critical Scenarios"
authors: "Florian Lüttner, Nicole Neis, Daniel Stadler, Robin Moss, Mirjam Fehling-Kaschek, Matthias Pfriem, Alexander Stolz, Jens Ziehn"
categories: "cs.RO, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.07482v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.07482v1"
---

## Abstract

The reliable operation of autonomous vehicles, automated driving functions, and advanced driver assistance systems across a wide range of relevant scenarios is critical for their development and deployment. Identifying a near-complete set of relevant driving scenarios for such functionalities is challenging due to numerous degrees of freedom involved, each affecting the outcomes of the driving scenario differently. Moreover, with increasing technical complexity of new functionalities, the number of potentially relevant, particularly "unknown unsafe" scenarios is increasing. To enhance validation efficiency, it is essential to identify relevant scenarios in advance, starting with simpler domains like highways before moving to more complex environments such as urban traffic. To address this, this paper focuses on analyzing lane change scenarios in highway traffic, which involve multiple degrees of freedom and present numerous safetyrelevant scenarios. We describe the process of data acquisition and processing of real-world data from public highway traffic, followed by the application of criticality measures on trajectory data to evaluate scenarios, as conducted within the AVEAS project (www.aveas.org). By linking the calculated measures to specific lane change driving scenarios and the conditions under which the data was collected, we facilitate the identification of safetyrelevant driving scenarios for various applications. Further, to tackle the extensive range of "unknown unsafe" scenarios, we propose a way to generate relevant scenarios by creating synthetic scenarios based on recorded ones. Consequently, we demonstrate and evaluate a processing chain that enables the identification of safety-relevant scenarios, the development of data-driven methods for extracting these scenarios, and the generation of synthetic critical scenarios via sampling on highways.
