---
title: "From YOLO to VLMs: Advancing Zero-Shot and Few-Shot Detection of Wastewater Treatment Plants Using Satellite Imagery in MENA Region"
authors: "Akila Premarathna, Kanishka Hewageegana, Garcia Andarcia Mariangel"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.14312v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.14312v1"
---

## Abstract

In regions of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), there is a high demand for wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs), crucial for sustainable water management. Precise identification of WWTPs from satellite images enables environmental monitoring. Traditional methods like YOLOv8 segmentation require extensive manual labeling. But studies indicate that vision-language models (VLMs) are an efficient alternative to achieving equivalent or superior results through inherent reasoning and annotation. This study presents a structured methodology for VLM comparison, divided into zero-shot and few-shot streams specifically to identify WWTPs. The YOLOv8 was trained on a governmental dataset of 83,566 high-resolution satellite images from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and UAE: ~85% WWTPs (positives), 15% non-WWTPs (negatives). Evaluated VLMs include LLaMA 3.2 Vision, Qwen 2.5 VL, DeepSeek-VL2, Gemma 3, Gemini, and Pixtral 12B (Mistral), used to identify WWTP components such as circular/rectangular tanks, aeration basins and distinguish confounders via expert prompts producing JSON outputs with confidence and descriptions. The dataset comprises 1,207 validated WWTP locations (198 UAE, 354 KSA, 655 Egypt) and equal non-WWTP sites from field/AI data, as 600mx600m Geo-TIFF images (Zoom 18, EPSG:4326). Zero-shot evaluations on WWTP images showed several VLMs out-performing YOLOv8's true positive rate, with Gemma-3 highest. Results confirm that VLMs, particularly with zero-shot, can replace YOLOv8 for efficient, annotation-free WWTP classification, enabling scalable remote sensing.
