---
title: "Research on Brain Tumor Classification Method Based on Improved ResNet34 Network"
authors: "Yufeng Li, Wenchao Zhao, Bo Dang, Weimin Wang"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.03751v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.03751v1"
---

## Abstract

Previously, image interpretation in radiology relied heavily on manual methods. However, manual classification of brain tumor medical images is time-consuming and labor-intensive. Even with shallow convolutional neural network models, the accuracy is not ideal. To improve the efficiency and accuracy of brain tumor image classification, this paper proposes a brain tumor classification model based on an improved ResNet34 network. This model uses the ResNet34 residual network as the backbone network and incorporates multi-scale feature extraction. It uses a multi-scale input module as the first layer of the ResNet34 network and an Inception v2 module as the residual downsampling layer. Furthermore, a channel attention mechanism module assigns different weights to different channels of the image from a channel domain perspective, obtaining more important feature information. The results after a five-fold crossover experiment show that the average classification accuracy of the improved network model is approximately 98.8%, which is not only 1% higher than ResNet34, but also only 80% of the number of parameters of the original model. Therefore, the improved network model not only improves accuracy but also reduces clutter, achieving a classification effect with fewer parameters and higher accuracy.
