---
title: "Datasets for machine learning and for assessing the intelligence level of automatic patent search systems"
authors: "Boris Genin, Alexander Gorbunov, Dmitry Zolkin, Igor Nekrasov"
categories: "cs.IR, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.18384v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.18384v1"
---

## Abstract

The key to success in automating prior art search in patent research using artificial intelligence lies in developing large datasets for machine learning and ensuring their availability. This work is dedicated to providing a comprehensive solution to the problem of creating infrastructure for research in this field, including datasets and tools for calculating search quality criteria. The paper discusses the concept of semantic clusters of patent documents that determine the state of the art in a given subject, as proposed by the authors. A definition of such semantic clusters is also provided. Prior art search is presented as the task of identifying elements within a semantic cluster of patent documents in the subject area specified by the document under consideration. A generator of user-configurable datasets for machine learning, based on collections of U.S. and Russian patent documents, is described. The dataset generator creates a database of links to documents in semantic clusters. Then, based on user-defined parameters, it forms a dataset of semantic clusters in JSON format for machine learning. To evaluate machine learning outcomes, it is proposed to calculate search quality scores that account for semantic clusters of the documents being searched. To automate the evaluation process, the paper describes a utility developed by the authors for assessing the quality of prior art document search.
