---
title: "Using Large Language Models to Create Personalized Networks From Therapy Sessions"
authors: "Clarissa W. Ong, Hiba Arnaout, Kate Sheehan, Estella Fox, Eugen Owtscharow, Iryna Gurevych"
categories: "cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.05836v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.05836v1"
---

## Abstract

Recent advances in psychotherapy have focused on treatment personalization, such as by selecting treatment modules based on personalized networks. However, estimating personalized networks typically requires intensive longitudinal data, which is not always feasible. A solution to facilitate scalability of network-driven treatment personalization is leveraging LLMs. In this study, we present an end-to-end pipeline for automatically generating client networks from 77 therapy transcripts to support case conceptualization and treatment planning. We annotated 3364 psychological processes and their corresponding dimensions in therapy transcripts. Using these data, we applied in-context learning to jointly identify psychological processes and their dimensions. The method achieved high performance even with a few training examples. To organize the processes into networks, we introduced a two-step method that grouped them into clinically meaningful clusters. We then generated explanation-augmented relationships between clusters. Experts found that networks produced by our multi-step approach outperformed those built with direct prompting for clinical utility and interpretability, with up to 90% preferring our approach. In addition, the networks were rated favorably by experts, with scores for clinical relevance, novelty, and usefulness ranging from 72-75%. Our findings provide a proof of concept for using LLMs to create clinically relevant networks from therapy transcripts. Advantages of our approach include bottom-up case conceptualization from client utterances in therapy sessions and identification of latent themes. Networks generated from our pipeline may be used in clinical settings and supervision and training. Future research should examine whether these networks improve treatment outcomes relative to other methods of treatment personalization, including statistically estimated networks.
