---
title: "Bayesian Networks, Markov Networks, Moralisation, Triangulation: a Categorical Perspective"
authors: "Antonio Lorenzin, Fabio Zanasi"
categories: "cs.AI, cs.LO, math.CT"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.09908v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.09908v1"
---

## Abstract

Moralisation and Triangulation are transformations allowing to switch between different ways of factoring a probability distribution into a graphical model. Moralisation allows to view a Bayesian network (a directed model) as a Markov network (an undirected model), whereas triangulation addresses the opposite direction. We present a categorical framework where these transformations are modelled as functors between a category of Bayesian networks and one of Markov networks. The two kinds of network (the objects of these categories) are themselves represented as functors from a `syntax' domain to a `semantics' codomain. Notably, moralisation and triangulation can be defined inductively on such syntax via functor pre-composition. Moreover, while moralisation is fully syntactic, triangulation relies on semantics. This leads to a discussion of the variable elimination algorithm, reinterpreted here as a functor in its own right, that splits the triangulation procedure in two: one purely syntactic, the other purely semantic. This approach introduces a functorial perspective into the theory of probabilistic graphical models, which highlights the distinctions between syntactic and semantic modifications.
