---
title: "Leveraging Spreading Activation for Improved Document Retrieval in Knowledge-Graph-Based RAG Systems"
authors: "Jovan Pavlović, Miklós Krész, László Hajdu"
categories: "cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.15922v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.15922v1"
---

## Abstract

Despite initial successes and a variety of architectures, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems still struggle to reliably retrieve and connect the multi-step evidence required for complicated reasoning tasks. Most of the standard RAG frameworks regard all retrieved information as equally reliable, overlooking the varying credibility and interconnected nature of large textual corpora. GraphRAG approaches offer potential improvement to RAG systems by integrating knowledge graphs, which structure information into nodes and edges, capture entity relationships, and enable multi-step logical traversal. However, GraphRAG is not always an ideal solution as it depends on high-quality graph representations of the corpus, which requires either pre-existing knowledge graphs that are expensive to build and update, or automated graph construction pipelines that are often unreliable. Moreover, systems following this paradigm typically use large language models to guide graph traversal and evidence retrieval, leading to challenges similar to those encountered with standard RAG. In this paper, we propose a novel RAG framework that employs the spreading activation algorithm to retrieve information from a corpus of documents interconnected by automatically constructed knowledge graphs, thereby enhancing the performance of large language models on complex tasks such as multi-hop question answering. Experiments show that our method achieves better or comparable performance to iterative RAG methodologies, while also being easily integrable as a plug-and-play module with a wide range of RAG-based approaches. Combining our method with chain-of-thought iterative retrieval yields up to a 39\% absolute gain in answer correctness compared to naive RAG, achieving these results with small open-weight language models and highlighting its effectiveness in resource-constrained settings.
