---
title: "NavMapFusion: Diffusion-based Fusion of Navigation Maps for Online Vectorized HD Map Construction"
authors: "Thomas Monninger, Zihan Zhang, Steffen Staab, Sihao Ding"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI, cs.LG, cs.RO"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.03317v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.03317v1"
---

## Abstract

Accurate environmental representations are essential for autonomous driving, providing the foundation for safe and efficient navigation. Traditionally, high-definition (HD) maps are providing this representation of the static road infrastructure to the autonomous system a priori. However, because the real world is constantly changing, such maps must be constructed online from on-board sensor data. Navigation-grade standard-definition (SD) maps are widely available, but their resolution is insufficient for direct deployment. Instead, they can be used as coarse prior to guide the online map construction process. We propose NavMapFusion, a diffusion-based framework that performs iterative denoising conditioned on high-fidelity sensor data and on low-fidelity navigation maps. This paper strives to answer: (1) How can coarse, potentially outdated navigation maps guide online map construction? (2) What advantages do diffusion models offer for map fusion? We demonstrate that diffusion-based map construction provides a robust framework for map fusion. Our key insight is that discrepancies between the prior map and online perception naturally correspond to noise within the diffusion process; consistent regions reinforce the map construction, whereas outdated segments are suppressed. On the nuScenes benchmark, NavMapFusion conditioned on coarse road lines from OpenStreetMap data reaches a 21.4% relative improvement on 100 m, and even stronger improvements on larger perception ranges, while maintaining real-time capabilities. By fusing low-fidelity priors with high-fidelity sensor data, the proposed method generates accurate and up-to-date environment representations, guiding towards safer and more reliable autonomous driving. The code is available at https://github.com/tmonnin/navmapfusion
