---
title: "FlipLLM: Efficient Bit-Flip Attacks on Multimodal LLMs using Reinforcement Learning"
authors: "Khurram Khalil, Khaza Anuarul Hoque"
categories: "cs.CR, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.09872v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.09872v1"
---

## Abstract

Generative Artificial Intelligence models, such as Large Language Models (LLMs) and Large Vision Models (VLMs), exhibit state-of-the-art performance but remain vulnerable to hardware-based threats, specifically bit-flip attacks (BFAs). Existing BFA discovery methods lack generalizability and struggle to scale, often failing to analyze the vast parameter space and complex interdependencies of modern foundation models in a reasonable time. This paper proposes FlipLLM, a reinforcement learning (RL) architecture-agnostic framework that formulates BFA discovery as a sequential decision-making problem. FlipLLM combines sensitivity-guided layer pruning with Q-learning to efficiently identify minimal, high-impact bit sets that can induce catastrophic failure. We demonstrate the effectiveness and generalizability of FlipLLM by applying it to a diverse set of models, including prominent text-only LLMs (GPT-2 Large, LLaMA 3.1 8B, and DeepSeek-V2 7B), VLMs such as LLaVA 1.6, and datasets, such as MMLU, MMLU-Pro, VQAv2, and TextVQA. Our results show that FlipLLM can identify critical bits that are vulnerable to BFAs up to 2.5x faster than SOTA methods. We demonstrate that flipping the FlipLLM-identified bits plummets the accuracy of LLaMA 3.1 8B from 69.9% to ~0.2%, and for LLaVA's VQA score from 78% to almost 0%, by flipping as few as 5 and 7 bits, respectively. Further analysis reveals that applying standard hardware protection mechanisms, such as ECC SECDED, to the FlipLLM-identified bit locations completely mitigates the BFA impact, demonstrating the practical value of our framework in guiding hardware-level defenses. FlipLLM offers the first scalable and adaptive methodology for exploring the BFA vulnerability of both language and multimodal foundation models, paving the way for comprehensive hardware-security evaluation.
