---
title: "Advanced Unsupervised Learning: A Comprehensive Overview of Multi-View Clustering Techniques"
authors: "Abdelmalik Moujahid, Fadi Dornaika"
categories: "cs.LG, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.05169v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.05169v1"
---

## Abstract

Machine learning techniques face numerous challenges to achieve optimal performance. These include computational constraints, the limitations of single-view learning algorithms and the complexity of processing large datasets from different domains, sources or views. In this context, multi-view clustering (MVC), a class of unsupervised multi-view learning, emerges as a powerful approach to overcome these challenges. MVC compensates for the shortcomings of single-view methods and provides a richer data representation and effective solutions for a variety of unsupervised learning tasks. In contrast to traditional single-view approaches, the semantically rich nature of multi-view data increases its practical utility despite its inherent complexity. This survey makes a threefold contribution: (1) a systematic categorization of multi-view clustering methods into well-defined groups, including co-training, co-regularization, subspace, deep learning, kernel-based, anchor-based, and graph-based strategies; (2) an in-depth analysis of their respective strengths, weaknesses, and practical challenges, such as scalability and incomplete data; and (3) a forward-looking discussion of emerging trends, interdisciplinary applications, and future directions in MVC research. This study represents an extensive workload, encompassing the review of over 140 foundational and recent publications, the development of comparative insights on integration strategies such as early fusion, late fusion, and joint learning, and the structured investigation of practical use cases in the areas of healthcare, multimedia, and social network analysis. By integrating these efforts, this work aims to fill existing gaps in MVC research and provide actionable insights for the advancement of the field.
