---
title: "Model-Based Diagnosis with Multiple Observations: A Unified Approach for C Software and Boolean Circuits"
authors: "Pedro Orvalho, Marta Kwiatkowska, Mikoláš Janota, Vasco Manquinho"
categories: "cs.SE, cs.AI, cs.LO, cs.SC"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.02898v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.02898v1"
---

## Abstract

Debugging is one of the most time-consuming and expensive tasks in software development and circuit design. Several formula-based fault localisation (FBFL) methods have been proposed, but they fail to guarantee a set of diagnoses across all failing tests or may produce redundant diagnoses that are not subset-minimal, particularly for programs/circuits with multiple faults.
  This paper introduces CFaults, a novel fault localisation tool for C software and Boolean circuits with multiple faults. CFaults leverages Model-Based Diagnosis (MBD) with multiple observations and aggregates all failing test cases into a unified Maximum Satisfiability (MaxSAT) formula. Consequently, our method guarantees consistency across observations and simplifies the fault localisation procedure. Experimental results on three benchmark sets, two of C programs, TCAS and C-Pack-IPAs, and one of Boolean circuits, ISCAS85, show that CFaults is faster at localising faults in C software than other FBFL approaches such as BugAssist, SNIPER, and HSD. On the ISCAS85 benchmark, CFaults is generally slower than HSD; however, it localises faults in only 6% fewer circuits, demonstrating that it remains competitive in this domain. Furthermore, CFaults produces only subset-minimal diagnoses of faulty statements, whereas the other approaches tend to enumerate redundant diagnoses (e.g., BugAssist and SNIPER).
