---
title: "Biothreat Benchmark Generation Framework for Evaluating Frontier AI Models I: The Task-Query Architecture"
authors: "Gary Ackerman, Brandon Behlendorf, Zachary Kallenborn, Sheriff Almakki, Doug Clifford, Jenna LaTourette, Hayley Peterson, Noah Sheinbaum, Olivia Shoemaker, Anna Wetzel"
categories: "cs.LG, cs.AI, cs.CY"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.08130v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.08130v1"
---

## Abstract

Both model developers and policymakers seek to quantify and mitigate the risk of rapidly-evolving frontier artificial intelligence (AI) models, especially large language models (LLMs), to facilitate bioterrorism or access to biological weapons. An important element of such efforts is the development of model benchmarks that can assess the biosecurity risk posed by a particular model. This paper describes the first component of a novel Biothreat Benchmark Generation (BBG) Framework. The BBG approach is designed to help model developers and evaluators reliably measure and assess the biosecurity risk uplift and general harm potential of existing and future AI models, while accounting for key aspects of the threat itself that are often overlooked in other benchmarking efforts, including different actor capability levels, and operational (in addition to purely technical) risk factors. As a pilot, the BBG is first being developed to address bacterial biological threats only. The BBG is built upon a hierarchical structure of biothreat categories, elements and tasks, which then serves as the basis for the development of task-aligned queries. This paper outlines the development of this biothreat task-query architecture, which we have named the Bacterial Biothreat Schema, while future papers will describe follow-on efforts to turn queries into model prompts, as well as how the resulting benchmarks can be implemented for model evaluation. Overall, the BBG Framework, including the Bacterial Biothreat Schema, seeks to offer a robust, re-usable structure for evaluating bacterial biological risks arising from LLMs across multiple levels of aggregation, which captures the full scope of technical and operational requirements for biological adversaries, and which accounts for a wide spectrum of biological adversary capabilities.
