---
title: "CLEF: Clinically-Guided Contrastive Learning for Electrocardiogram Foundation Models"
authors: "Yuxuan Shu, Peter H. Charlton, Fahim Kawsar, Jussi Hernesniemi, Mohammad Malekzadeh"
categories: "cs.LG, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.02180v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.02180v1"
---

## Abstract

The electrocardiogram (ECG) is a key diagnostic tool in cardiovascular health. Single-lead ECG recording is integrated into both clinical-grade and consumer wearables. While self-supervised pretraining of foundation models on unlabeled ECGs improves diagnostic performance, existing approaches do not incorporate domain knowledge from clinical metadata. We introduce a novel contrastive learning approach that utilizes an established clinical risk score to adaptively weight negative pairs: clinically-guided contrastive learning. It aligns the similarities of ECG embeddings with clinically meaningful differences between subjects, with an explicit mechanism to handle missing metadata. On 12-lead ECGs from 161K patients in the MIMIC-IV dataset, we pretrain single-lead ECG foundation models at three scales, collectively called CLEF, using only routinely collected metadata without requiring per-sample ECG annotations. We evaluate CLEF on 18 clinical classification and regression tasks across 7 held-out datasets, and benchmark against 5 foundation model baselines and 3 self-supervised algorithms. When pretrained on 12-lead ECG data and tested on lead-I data, CLEF outperforms self-supervised foundation model baselines: the medium-sized CLEF achieves average AUROC improvements of at least 2.6% in classification and average reductions in MAEs of at least 3.2% in regression. Comparing with existing self-supervised learning algorithms, CLEF improves the average AUROC by at least 1.8%. Moreover, when pretrained only on lead-I data for classification tasks, CLEF performs comparably to the state-of-the-art ECGFounder, which was trained in a supervised manner. Overall, CLEF enables more accurate and scalable single-lead ECG analysis, advancing remote health monitoring. Code and pretrained CLEF models are available at: github.com/Nokia-Bell-Labs/ecg-foundation-model.
