---
title: "Fose: Fusion of One-Step Diffusion and End-to-End Network for Pansharpening"
authors: "Kai Liu, Zeli Lin, Weibo Wang, Linghe Kong, Yulun Zhang"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.17202v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.17202v1"
---

## Abstract

Pansharpening is a significant image fusion task that fuses low-resolution multispectral images (LRMSI) and high-resolution panchromatic images (PAN) to obtain high-resolution multispectral images (HRMSI). The development of the diffusion models (DM) and the end-to-end models (E2E model) has greatly improved the frontier of pansharping. DM takes the multi-step diffusion to obtain an accurate estimation of the residual between LRMSI and HRMSI. However, the multi-step process takes large computational power and is time-consuming. As for E2E models, their performance is still limited by the lack of prior and simple structure. In this paper, we propose a novel four-stage training strategy to obtain a lightweight network Fose, which fuses one-step DM and an E2E model. We perform one-step distillation on an enhanced SOTA DM for pansharping to compress the inference process from 50 steps to only 1 step. Then we fuse the E2E model with one-step DM with lightweight ensemble blocks. Comprehensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate the significant improvement of the proposed Fose on three commonly used benchmarks. Moreover, we achieve a 7.42 speedup ratio compared to the baseline DM while achieving much better performance. The code and model are released at https://github.com/Kai-Liu001/Fose.
