---
title: "Echo-N1: Affective RL Frontier"
authors: "Naifan Zhang, Ruihan Sun, Ruixi Su, Shiqi Ma, Shiya Zhang, Xianna Weng, Xiaofan Zhang, Yuhan Zhan, Yuyang Xu, Zhaohan Chen, Zhengyuan Pan, Ziyi Song"
categories: "cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.00344v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.00344v1"
---

## Abstract

The LLM field has spent a year perfecting RL for tasks machines already excel at, math, code, and deterministic reasoning, while completely sidestepping the domain that actually defines human intelligence: subjective, emotionally grounded, personality sensitive conversation. This space has often been regarded as inherently subjective and challenging to formalize, making it appear unsuitable for conventional RL pipelines. We show that it is not only possible and it is a solvable and transformative RL problem. We propose the first framework that infers user personality on the fly and optimizes model behavior toward personalized conversational preferences. Contrary to the widespread belief that RL collapses in non-verifiable settings, our method produces consistent, robust, and dramatic improvements in humanlike interaction quality. We also introduce the first dynamic emotional intelligence evaluation suite to quantify these gains. Our model, which is introduced as Echo-N1, behaves far above its base version and outperforming the proprietary Doubao 1.5 Character. This work establishes a new frontier for RL: optimizing models for the deeply subjective, deeply human dimensions of conversation.
