---
title: "DIST-CLIP: Arbitrary Metadata and Image Guided MRI Harmonization via Disentangled Anatomy-Contrast Representations"
authors: "Mehmet Yigit Avci, Pedro Borges, Virginia Fernandez, Paul Wright, Mehmet Yigitsoy, Sebastien Ourselin, Jorge Cardoso"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.07674v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.07674v1"
---

## Abstract

Deep learning holds immense promise for transforming medical image analysis, yet its clinical generalization remains profoundly limited. A major barrier is data heterogeneity. This is particularly true in Magnetic Resonance Imaging, where scanner hardware differences, diverse acquisition protocols, and varying sequence parameters introduce substantial domain shifts that obscure underlying biological signals. Data harmonization methods aim to reduce these instrumental and acquisition variability, but existing approaches remain insufficient. When applied to imaging data, image-based harmonization approaches are often restricted by the need for target images, while existing text-guided methods rely on simplistic labels that fail to capture complex acquisition details or are typically restricted to datasets with limited variability, failing to capture the heterogeneity of real-world clinical environments. To address these limitations, we propose DIST-CLIP (Disentangled Style Transfer with CLIP Guidance), a unified framework for MRI harmonization that flexibly uses either target images or DICOM metadata for guidance. Our framework explicitly disentangles anatomical content from image contrast, with the contrast representations being extracted using pre-trained CLIP encoders. These contrast embeddings are then integrated into the anatomical content via a novel Adaptive Style Transfer module. We trained and evaluated DIST-CLIP on diverse real-world clinical datasets, and showed significant improvements in performance when compared against state-of-the-art methods in both style translation fidelity and anatomical preservation, offering a flexible solution for style transfer and standardizing MRI data. Our code and weights will be made publicly available upon publication.
