---
title: "CACARA: Cross-Modal Alignment Leveraging a Text-Centric Approach for Cost-Effective Multimodal and Multilingual Learning"
authors: "Diego A. B. Moreira, Alef I. Ferreira, Jhessica Silva, Gabriel O. dos Santos, Gustavo Bonil, João Gondim, Marina dos Santos, Helena Maia, Simone Hashiguti, Nádia da Silva, Carolina Scarton, Helio Pedrini, Sandra Avila"
categories: "cs.CL, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.00496v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.00496v1"
---

## Abstract

As deep learning models evolve, new applications and challenges are rapidly emerging. Tasks that once relied on a single modality, such as text, images, or audio, are now enriched by seamless interactions between multimodal data. These connections bridge information gaps: an image can visually materialize a text, while audio can add context to an image. Researchers have developed numerous multimodal models, but most rely on resource-intensive training across multiple modalities. Similarly, extending these models to new languages often follows the same resource-heavy training strategy. In this work, we propose a multimodal and multilingual architecture, CACARA, trained through emergent alignment learning, enabling the seamless integration of new modalities into an existing bimodal/multimodal model without requiring full retraining. This work breaks new ground by demonstrating that this emergent alignment paradigm can unlock multilingual capabilities from monolingual training. By fine-tuning the newly incorporated modality only on data aligned with the English language, our model develops support for over 100 languages without explicit multilingual pretraining or tuning of the text encoder. Such emergent multimodal and multilingual properties are gained efficiently, preserving previously learned knowledge at a training cost comparable to that of a monolingual model. Our strategy achieves up to a 14.24 percentage points improvement in R@1 audio-to-text retrieval, outperforming state-of-the-art multimodal models -- all without the heavy computational cost of retraining across every modality and language.
