---
title: "A Dataset and Benchmarks for Atrial Fibrillation Detection from Electrocardiograms of Intensive Care Unit Patients"
authors: "Sarah Nassar, Nooshin Maghsoodi, Sophia Mannina, Shamel Addas, Stephanie Sibley, Gabor Fichtinger, David Pichora, David Maslove, Purang Abolmaesumi, Parvin Mousavi"
categories: "cs.LG, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.18031v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.18031v1"
---

## Abstract

Objective: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia experienced by intensive care unit (ICU) patients and can cause adverse health effects. In this study, we publish a labelled ICU dataset and benchmarks for AF detection. Methods: We compared machine learning models across three data-driven artificial intelligence (AI) approaches: feature-based classifiers, deep learning (DL), and ECG foundation models (FMs). This comparison addresses a critical gap in the literature and aims to pinpoint which AI approach is best for accurate AF detection. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) from a Canadian ICU and the 2021 PhysioNet/Computing in Cardiology Challenge were used to conduct the experiments. Multiple training configurations were tested, ranging from zero-shot inference to transfer learning. Results: On average and across both datasets, ECG FMs performed best, followed by DL, then feature-based classifiers. The model that achieved the top F1 score on our ICU test set was ECG-FM through a transfer learning strategy (F1=0.89). Conclusion: This study demonstrates promising potential for using AI to build an automatic patient monitoring system. Significance: By publishing our labelled ICU dataset (LinkToBeAdded) and performance benchmarks, this work enables the research community to continue advancing the state-of-the-art in AF detection in the ICU.
