---
title: "MGRegBench: A Novel Benchmark Dataset with Anatomical Landmarks for Mammography Image Registration"
authors: "Svetlana Krasnova, Emiliya Starikova, Ilia Naletov, Andrey Krylov, Dmitry Sorokin"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.17605v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.17605v1"
---

## Abstract

Robust mammography registration is essential for clinical applications like tracking disease progression and monitoring longitudinal changes in breast tissue. However, progress has been limited by the absence of public datasets and standardized benchmarks. Existing studies are often not directly comparable, as they use private data and inconsistent evaluation frameworks. To address this, we present MGRegBench, a public benchmark dataset for mammogram registration. It comprises over 5,000 image pairs, with 100 containing manual anatomical landmarks and segmentation masks for rigorous evaluation. This makes MGRegBench one of the largest public 2D registration datasets with manual annotations. Using this resource, we benchmarked diverse registration methods including classical (ANTs), learning-based (VoxelMorph, TransMorph), implicit neural representation (IDIR), a classic mammography-specific approach, and a recent state-of-the-art deep learning method MammoRegNet. The implementations were adapted to this modality from the authors' implementations or re-implemented from scratch. Our contributions are: (1) the first public dataset of this scale with manual landmarks and masks for mammography registration; (2) the first like-for-like comparison of diverse methods on this modality; and (3) an extensive analysis of deep learning-based registration. We publicly release our code and data to establish a foundational resource for fair comparisons and catalyze future research. The source code and data are at https://github.com/KourtKardash/MGRegBench.
