---
title: "EnECG: Efficient Ensemble Learning for Electrocardiogram Multi-task Foundation Model"
authors: "Yuhao Xu, Xiaoda Wang, Jiaying Lu, Sirui Ding, Defu Cao, Huaxiu Yao, Yan Liu, Xiao Hu, Carl Yang"
categories: "cs.LG, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.22935v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.22935v1"
---

## Abstract

Electrocardiogram (ECG) analysis plays a vital role in the early detection, monitoring, and management of various cardiovascular conditions. While existing models have achieved notable success in ECG interpretation, they fail to leverage the interrelated nature of various cardiac abnormalities. Conversely, developing a specific model capable of extracting all relevant features for multiple ECG tasks remains a significant challenge. Large-scale foundation models, though powerful, are not typically pretrained on ECG data, making full re-training or fine-tuning computationally expensive. To address these challenges, we propose EnECG(Mixture of Experts-based Ensemble Learning for ECG Multi-tasks), an ensemble-based framework that integrates multiple specialized foundation models, each excelling in different aspects of ECG interpretation. Instead of relying on a single model or single task, EnECG leverages the strengths of multiple specialized models to tackle a variety of ECG-based tasks. To mitigate the high computational cost of full re-training or fine-tuning, we introduce a lightweight adaptation strategy: attaching dedicated output layers to each foundation model and applying Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) only to these newly added parameters. We then adopt a Mixture of Experts (MoE) mechanism to learn ensemble weights, effectively combining the complementary expertise of individual models. Our experimental results demonstrate that by minimizing the scope of fine-tuning, EnECG can help reduce computational and memory costs while maintaining the strong representational power of foundation models. This framework not only enhances feature extraction and predictive performance but also ensures practical efficiency for real-world clinical applications. The code is available at https://github.com/yuhaoxu99/EnECG.git.
