---
title: "Towards Generative Location Awareness for Disaster Response: A Probabilistic Cross-view Geolocalization Approach"
authors: "Hao Li, Fabian Deuser, Wenping Yin, Steffen Knoblauch, Wufan Zhao, Filip Biljecki, Yong Xue, Wei Huang"
categories: "cs.AI, cs.CV"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.20056v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.20056v1"
---

## Abstract

As Earth's climate changes, it is impacting disasters and extreme weather events across the planet. Record-breaking heat waves, drenching rainfalls, extreme wildfires, and widespread flooding during hurricanes are all becoming more frequent and more intense. Rapid and efficient response to disaster events is essential for climate resilience and sustainability. A key challenge in disaster response is to accurately and quickly identify disaster locations to support decision-making and resources allocation. In this paper, we propose a Probabilistic Cross-view Geolocalization approach, called ProbGLC, exploring new pathways towards generative location awareness for rapid disaster response. Herein, we combine probabilistic and deterministic geolocalization models into a unified framework to simultaneously enhance model explainability (via uncertainty quantification) and achieve state-of-the-art geolocalization performance. Designed for rapid diaster response, the ProbGLC is able to address cross-view geolocalization across multiple disaster events as well as to offer unique features of probabilistic distribution and localizability score. To evaluate the ProbGLC, we conduct extensive experiments on two cross-view disaster datasets (i.e., MultiIAN and SAGAINDisaster), consisting diverse cross-view imagery pairs of multiple disaster types (e.g., hurricanes, wildfires, floods, to tornadoes). Preliminary results confirms the superior geolocalization accuracy (i.e., 0.86 in Acc@1km and 0.97 in Acc@25km) and model explainability (i.e., via probabilistic distributions and localizability scores) of the proposed ProbGLC approach, highlighting the great potential of leveraging generative cross-view approach to facilitate location awareness for better and faster disaster response. The data and code is publicly available at https://github.com/bobleegogogo/ProbGLC
