---
title: "Radiologist Copilot: An Agentic Assistant with Orchestrated Tools for Radiology Reporting with Quality Control"
authors: "Yongrui Yu, Zhongzhen Huang, Linjie Mu, Shaoting Zhang, Xiaofan Zhang"
categories: "cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.02814v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.02814v1"
---

## Abstract

Radiology reporting is an essential yet time-consuming and error-prone task for radiologists in clinical examinations, especially for volumetric medical images. Rigorous quality control is also critical but tedious, ensuring that the final report meets clinical standards. Existing automated approaches, including radiology report generation methods and medical vision-language models, focus mainly on the report generation phase and neglect the crucial quality control procedure, limiting their capability to provide comprehensive support to radiologists. We propose Radiologist Copilot, an agentic AI assistant equipped with orchestrated tools designed for automated radiology reporting with quality control. Leveraging large language models as the reasoning backbone, the agentic system autonomously selects tools, plans, and executes actions, emulating the behavior of radiologists throughout the holistic radiology reporting process. The orchestrated tools include region localization, think with image paradigm directed region analysis planning, strategic template selection for report generation, quality assessment and feedback-driven adaptive refinement for quality control. Therefore, Radiologist Copilot facilitates accurate, complete, and efficient radiology reporting, assisting radiologists and improving clinical efficiency. Experimental results demonstrate that Radiologist Copilot significantly surpasses other state-of-the-art methods in radiology reporting. The source code will be released upon acceptance.
