---
title: "Network Level Evaluation of Hangup Susceptibility of HRGCs using Deep Learning and Sensing Techniques: A Goal Towards Safer Future"
authors: "Kaustav Chatterjee, Joshua Li, Kundan Parajulee, Jared Schwennesen"
categories: "cs.LG, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.12832v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.12832v1"
---

## Abstract

Steep profiled Highway Railway Grade Crossings (HRGCs) pose safety hazards to vehicles with low ground clearance, which may become stranded on the tracks, creating risks of train vehicle collisions. This research develops a framework for network level evaluation of hangup susceptibility of HRGCs. Profile data from different crossings in Oklahoma were collected using both a walking profiler and the Pave3D8K Laser Imaging System. A hybrid deep learning model, combining Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) and Transformer architectures, was developed to reconstruct accurate HRGC profiles from Pave3D8K Laser Imaging System data. Vehicle dimension data from around 350 specialty vehicles were collected at various locations across Oklahoma to enable up to date statistical design dimensions. Hangup susceptibility was analyzed using three vehicle dimension scenarios (a) median dimension (median wheelbase and ground clearance), (b) 75 25 percentile dimension (75 percentile wheelbase, 25 percentile ground clearance), and (c) worst case dimension (maximum wheelbase and minimum ground clearance). Results indicate 36, 62, and 67 crossings at the highest hangup risk levels under these scenarios, respectively. An ArcGIS database and a software interface were developed to support transportation agencies in mitigating crossing hazards. This framework advances safety evaluation by integrating next generation sensing, deep learning, and infrastructure datasets into practical decision support tools.
