---
title: "The Best of the Two Worlds: Harmonizing Semantic and Hash IDs for Sequential Recommendation"
authors: "Ziwei Liu, Yejing Wang, Qidong Liu, Zijian Zhang, Chong Chen, Wei Huang, Xiangyu Zhao"
categories: "cs.IR, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.10388v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.10388v1"
---

## Abstract

Conventional Sequential Recommender Systems (SRS) typically assign unique Hash IDs (HID) to construct item embeddings. These HID embeddings effectively learn collaborative information from historical user-item interactions, making them vulnerable to situations where most items are rarely consumed (the long-tail problem). Recent methods that incorporate auxiliary information often suffer from noisy collaborative sharing caused by co-occurrence signals or semantic homogeneity caused by flat dense embeddings. Semantic IDs (SIDs), with their capability of code sharing and multi-granular semantic modeling, provide a promising alternative. However, the collaborative overwhelming phenomenon hinders the further development of SID-based methods. The quantization mechanisms commonly compromise the uniqueness of identifiers required for modeling head items, creating a performance seesaw between head and tail items. To address this dilemma, we propose \textbf{\name}, a novel framework that harmonizes the SID and HID. Specifically, we devise a dual-branch modeling architecture that enables the model to capture both the multi-granular semantics within SID while preserving the unique collaborative identity of HID. Furthermore, we introduce a dual-level alignment strategy that bridges the two representations, facilitating knowledge transfer and supporting robust preference modeling. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets show that \name~ effectively balances recommendation quality for both head and tail items while surpassing the existing baselines. The implementation code can be found online\footnote{https://github.com/ziwliu8/H2Rec}.
