---
title: "End2Reg: Learning Task-Specific Segmentation for Markerless Registration in Spine Surgery"
authors: "Lorenzo Pettinari, Sidaty El Hadramy, Michael Wehrli, Philippe C. Cattin, Daniel Studer, Carol C. Hasler, Maria Licci"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.13402v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.13402v1"
---

## Abstract

Purpose: Intraoperative navigation in spine surgery demands millimeter-level accuracy. Current systems based on intraoperative radiographic imaging and bone-anchored markers are invasive, radiation-intensive and workflow disruptive. Recent markerless RGB-D registration methods offer a promising alternative, but existing approaches rely on weak segmentation labels to isolate relevant anatomical structures, which can propagate errors throughout registration. Methods: We present End2Reg an end-to-end deep learning framework that jointly optimizes segmentation and registration, eliminating the need for weak segmentation labels and manual steps. The network learns segmentation masks specifically optimized for registration, guided solely by the registration objective without direct segmentation supervision. Results: The proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art performance on ex- and in-vivo benchmarks, reducing median Target Registration Error by 32% to 1.83mm and mean Root Mean Square Error by 45% to 3.95mm, respectively. An ablation study confirms that end-to-end optimization significantly improves registration accuracy. Conclusion: The presented end-to-end RGB-D registration pipeline removes dependency on weak labels and manual steps, advancing towards fully automatic, markerless intraoperative navigation. Code and interactive visualizations are available at: https://lorenzopettinari.github.io/end-2-reg/.
