---
title: "Enhancing Tree Species Classification: Insights from YOLOv8 and Explainable AI Applied to TLS Point Cloud Projections"
authors: "Adrian Straker, Paul Magdon, Marco Zullich, Maximilian Freudenberg, Christoph Kleinn, Johannes Breidenbach, Stefano Puliti, Nils Nölke"
categories: "cs.CV, cs.AI"
source: "http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.16950v1"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.16950v1"
---

## Abstract

Classifying tree species has been a core research area in forest remote sensing for decades. New sensors and classification approaches like TLS and deep learning achieve state-of-the art accuracy but their decision processes remain unclear. Methods such as Finer-CAM (Class Activation Mapping) can highlight features in TLS projections that contribute to the classification of a target species, yet are uncommon in similar looking contrastive tree species. We propose a novel method linking Finer-CAM explanations to segments of TLS projections representing structural tree features to systemically evaluate which features drive species discrimination. Using TLS data from 2,445 trees across seven European tree species, we trained and validated five YOLOv8 models with cross-validation, reaching a mean accuracy of 96% (SD = 0.24%). Analysis of 630 saliency maps shows the models primarily rely on crown features in TLS projections for species classification. While this result is pronounced in Silver Birch, European Beech, English oak, and Norway spruce, stem features contribute more frequently to the differentiation of European ash, Scots pine, and Douglas fir. Particularly representations of finer branches contribute to the decisions of the models. The models consider those tree species similar to each other which a human expert would also regard as similar. Furthermore, our results highlight the need for an improved understanding of the decision processes of tree species classification models to help reveal data set and model limitations, biases, and to build confidence in model predictions.
